{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Cambria-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \keepn\ri-597\sa60\sb240\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32\b1\i0 Chapter 1 \endash  }
\par\pard\plain \fi284\ri-597\ql\ltrch\loch \f2\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The summer sun was hot, baking everything, giving the shrubs a tired, slightly wilted look. Across the valley, the distant houses rippled as if they were under water, while the line of hills behind was just a shimmering blue blur.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Inside was cool and shaded. The balcony/veranda kept the sun from the windows, the solar block on the glass cut down the heat, while the airconditioning kept everything pleasant.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It was late January in Brisbane Australia, the hottest time of the year. Brisbane is semi tropical, meaning that summer is a lot drier than further north, where the tropics experience the wet season from November till March.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I were sitting in our home office looking out across the shrubs to the valley. We were both feeling restless, thinking to take off to the beach rather than finish the project we were working on. The dog was happily asleep on her mat, one eye partly open, having decided that it was too hot to go outside and bark at strange noises.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini Vaidya stands about five feet eight inches, and is of mixed indian asian extraction. Her skin is coffee colored, her black glossy hair hangs halfway down her back and her eyes are tawny yellow like a lioness. She has a gymnast's body. This particular day she had a large gold hoop in each ear, and was dressed in an emerald green blouse, black miniskirt and bare feet.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I am Danny Piekowski, I stand about five feet eleven, fairly muscular, with brown hair and blue eyes. I usually have a small gold loop in my left ear. Today I was dressed in dark blue slacks, pale blue shirt. My feet were bare as well, but we both had sandals by the door should we need them. We weren't expecting clients today though. Most of our client contact involve visits to their offices.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini is my lover, partner, fiancee and best friend. (See "We are such stuff as dreams are made of" for details on how we first met.)}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i do most of our work from home, using our home office. We do a combination of technical writing and software development using the latest tools on PCs. We also have a girl friday called paula who handles the day to day running of things, as well as the contract book keeping, billing and word processing. When she's not there, or there's more work than she can handle, we have Liz, a temp who fills in. Almost all of the day to day clients are there to see Paula or Liz.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our home office is downstairs, a large open area that is supposed to be the living/dining area. Sometimes we take a couple of portable PCs outside under the pergola. Across the corridor is the study, where Paula or Liz work. The study is smaller, but its door is closer to the front door than the office entrance. Since Liz usually fills in for paula, they share the desk. On the odd occasions when both of them have been there, we put one of them in the main office.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Also downstairs is the family room, kitchen and meals area, laundry, downstairs bathroom and toilet. Upstairs is the living room, with views across the valley, the main bathroom, and the bedrooms. One is for nalini and myself. The main guest room is occupied by Paula, along with her boyfriend prospero. (Refer to "The Shadow of the Serpent" for the background on Paula and Prospero). There are three other smaller bedrooms, one containing gym equipment, one junk, and the other empty. If guests do drop in, we've a couple of sofas that can be converted into double beds.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As I was saying, it was late January in Brisbane, about a three months after Paula, Nalini and myself had returned from tarantia. Imladril came to visit. Her arrival was a bit of a shock for liz, because imladril did not use the front door, but arrived in the corridor. The dog alerted us, bouncing out into the corridor to greet her. Liz looked up and there was imladril standing patting the dog.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril is about four feet nine inches tall, brown skinned, but with blonde hair braided into over fifty braids, and each braid strung with beads. She was wearing a tartan skirt, green lace up bodice, and brown boots. Her eyes are disconcertingly green.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz was sitting at her desk, wearing a green miniskirt, a red top and no stockings. Like the rest of us she was barefoot, although a pair of black high heels sat in the corridor where she could put them on before answering the door. Her black hair was cut shoulder length, and caught at the back of her head in a small pony tail with a bright orange scrunchy. In her bare feet she stands almost five foot six, and she is a little on the solid side, but not plump. She is a murri aboriginal, so her skin is brown, as are her eyes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz started, and exclaimed "Who are you, and how did you get here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril replied calmly "Sorry to startle you, child. My name is Imladril. I'm here to see danny or nalini."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked again "But how did you get in here? I didn't see you go past me!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril replied "I walked. Like This."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i came out to see what was happening. We arrived just in time to see imladril disappear, leaving a rainbow after image behind. Nalini complained "Oh no, here we go again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She was refering to an earlier incident in which imladril had done something similar when she had first met paula.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz's jaw dropped open and her eyes bugged out. "Did you see..." was as far as she got before imladril reappeared.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz stood there with a shocked expression on her face. I said "Imladril, this is Liz, the temp who fills in when paula's not here. Liz, this is imladril. She has an unusual method of coming and going."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz was regaining her composure, no doubt because we seemed to know what was going on. "Uh,.. its like something out of the x-files. How did you do that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril said "Greetings liz. I did not mean to shock you, but i did not expect you to be here. Please do not worry, i am friendly. How i come and go is an application of natural powers. If you are interested, perhaps some time i will teach you how it is done."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz smiled uncertainly. "Um... Thanks. I think i'd like to know a bit more before i say yes. Uh.. forgive me for asking, but you don't look like anyone else i've seen. Where abouts are you from?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril smiled "That would be better told over coffee. My eyes are naturally green, and my hair is naturally blonde. Right now i need to talk with danny and nalini, but i'll tell you about myself over coffee later."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i went back into our shared office, accompanied by imladril, who shut the door. Imladril started without any preliminaries. "I have some important news. Paula is pregnant. What are your thoughts on this?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I remarked "Uh.. i thought she was on the pill."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril replied "She is. That is not important." She looked at me expectantly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, she's already staying here. I don't think there'll be any problem if she wants to have a baby. I don't know how her parents are going to react. How about you nalini."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini was looking thoughtful. "Sure, she can continue to stay here. She's like family these days. She'll need money, but that won't be a problem, those gems we brought back from aquilonia are worth a fortune, even split into thirds. But i sense there is more to your question than this. I take it that prospero isn't the father? You can tell?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, i can tell. If you cast your minds back to the time when you and danny were teaching her energy sharing..." We did. Things had got out of hand, and the three of us had wound up making love.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril continued "That activation of energies over rode her contraceptive measures, and she became pregnant that night. However, because she has been spending time in shadows where time flows more slowly, she is not four months pregnant, but barely one month."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I could feel my face going red. I suspect my jaw dropped open as well. Nalini took hold of my hand and gave it a squeeze. I'm glad she did, because it took a weight off my mind.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini sighed, and then remarked "So that's the final outcome. I don't know whether to laugh or cry."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I commented "I think i would prefer not to have known. It would be easier for all of us if we all thought it was prospero's kid. How's paula taking it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "I agree with danny, imladril. I think i would rather not have known. Does paula know Danny's the father? I'm afraid she might try to come between danny and me, and just when i thought that all of that was dealt with." she made a face.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril replied "She came to me with her suspicions today, and i checked and confirmed to her that she is pregnant. I have not told her who the father is yet. I may not tell her, it might be kinder to let her think that prospero is. But i want you two to realise that you have a responsibility for her and her unborn child."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini brightened perceptably and asked "So how is paula taking it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril replied "She is surprised, uncertain what to do, how her life is going to go. It is unexpected, because she has been taking precautions. She needs some reassurance, she will need some help. I would like you two to help her all you can, just as if she were your sister."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She sat back and smiled "Well, that's all i wanted to say. I do not want paula to know we have had this conversation; but i would like you two to tell her that she has your support and love."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We both said yes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini remarked "Well danny, i can't blame you for this, i was there, i know how it happened, i took part in it." She made a face, then suddenly she grinned "So, you're going to be a father huh? And i'm going to be an auntie."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Thoughts were buzzing through my brain. Perhaps i was in shock. I must have looked glum, for imladril leaned forward and remarked "Cheer up danny, a baby is supposed to be a joyous occasion. The events of life are only problems if you make them so. In our society a woman may have several children by different fathers, and a man may father children with different women. You may know I have sixteen children by nine different fathers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Although imladril looks no more than eighteen or nineteen most of the time, she is from a long lived race, and is over eight hundred years old. Her youngest child, a girl, was a teenager and still living with her.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini squeezed my hand again, and then i felt the touch of her mind, like a caress. The two of us are telepathic, although we don't always use it. Her thought came to me. <<Hey lover, we'll manage. We in this together, aren't we? Just don't you let it become an obstacle, because I won't.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I closed my eyes. <<Don't worry, i won't.>>. The caress of her mind grew stronger, and then we briefly linked in a wordless communication, now two halves of a greater whole. We stayed together for perhaps thirty seconds, then seperated. Now i felt light, happy, loved, and i knew nalini felt the same.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril had sat quietly while this was happening, she was no doubt aware of what we were doing. The viharani are telepathic among themselves, and with some humans. She waited until we returned our attention to the room, then commented "That's better. Now, how about coffee and something to eat? We should reassure that nice young girl outside."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The four of us went down the hall to the kitchen, where nalini put coffee on. It was nearly lunch time, so i opened a bottle of wine, and sat down to liz's right facing imladril. Nalini sat to my right, which is the custom amongst imladril's people - the woman sits to the right of the man.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril remarked "Danny is truly outnumbered today. Not only is he the only male here, he is also the only one with pale skin. I hope you do not feel too awkward today, danny!" She spoke english with a slight accent.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz smiled and nodded at this. "I don't think Danny minds too much."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I replied "When we come to visit Imladril, i'm about the only one with pale skin in the whole village. It doesn't worry me. They accept me, I accept them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Shall we have some food?" Imladril spread her hands in a gesture, and suddenly the table filled with vegetarian delicacies. Liz looked at everything and shook her head. "How did you do that? Is it real?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril patted her hand and replied "It is real food. I did not create it from nothing, i fetched it from elsewhere." She drank a swallow of wine, and then started explaining "I am a real person, just like you are, except that i have learned skills that you have no words for. The closest words you have in english is magic or sorcery. I prefer to use the term sorcery, since magic is also the tricks that entertainers do before an audience. Can you accept that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz replied "Well, my people have shamans or sorcerers, and some of them are powerful, but they can't do something like that. At least i've never heard of anyone doning it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril looked surprised. "I thought that sorcery was not practiced here. Who are your people?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz suddenly looked a little shy but responded "I'm an aboriginal. I was born on stradbroke island. We still have sorcerers in our culture, although we don't call them that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Her people were in this country before the white settlers came. They were mostly nomadic hunter gatherers. Many of them were killed or died of disease. They very nearly lost their cultural heritage."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They've only be regaining their heritage and their pride in the past twenty years or so." i added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril nodded. Liz was looking faintly astonished, as if she expected imladril to know the history of her people without being told. "There's still a way to go before everyone accepts us. But my mob probably had it better than a lot of others. My brother's going to uni, I've been to college. How come you don't know about us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril replied "You see liz, i do not live here. If i said that there are many earths, all seperated from one another like pages of a book, parallel worlds, would you know what i mean?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked thoughtful, but nodded "I've heard about things like that. That's where things that disappear in the bermuda triangle are supposed to go. But i don't know much else about it. Unless you count 'Sliders' TV show. They go visit parallel earths."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril smiled sweetly. "We refer to them as shadows, which are cast by the source. There are an infinite number of shadows, each different. I can cross between these shadows at will. You people may even have stories about people who can cross to other realms. Humans here have stories of the realm of faerie, and a race called elves. They were just humans from another shadow, probably my own people, who could cross between shadows."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz raised her eyebrows. "So you're an elf? I've heard about elves, never really believed they existed though. Our people don't have stories like that. We do have stories about spirit helpers, and there are a lot of stories from the dream time about powerful people and magical beings. But our people only talk about the spirit world and the real world. I don't know a lot about that, but only the stories my people told me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril nodded. "We don't call ourselves elves, but viharani. There are a number of different races that can shift between shadows, I think humans have lumped all of them together as elves. I have taught danny and nalini some of my knowledge, and over time they will learn as much as they are capable of. I will tell you more if you like. But you must tell me about your people, for i know nothing of them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We sat over lunch for almost two hours, finishing one bottle of wine and opening a second. Liz became a little giggly after her second glass, but she relaxed and talked about herself. All of us shared some of our personal history.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini is from a diferent shadow herself. She had been taught the skill of shadow shifting almost fifteen years ago by a man called korum who was a powerful sorcerer from some distant shadow. She met me in dreaming almost two years before she met me in waking. I was taught many things during my dreaming sessions, and progressed to having complete lucidity in most dreams. Nalini arranged one night to meet me for lunch the following saturday. That same afternoon she started teaching me shadow shifting. We have been inseperable ever since.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In Imladril's shadow time runs almost four and a half times more slowly that it does here, so spending one day in her shadow results in about four and a half days passing here. As a consequence her birth coincides roughly with some of the egyption pyramids. She has been the ruler of her people for almost two hundred years.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When imladril left, liz said "I don't know what to make of her. She seems nice enough, but i don't know if i want to become involved in sorcery."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled at her. "Don't worry, now that you know, the choice will be up to you. You will have to accept that she can appear her when ever she wishes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "Are you serious that you and danny can do that too? It's like something out of sliders isn't it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini raised an eyebrow. I shook my head. "They seem to move just to the next closest shadow, with no control about where they go, and stay there for some time. We cross many shadows to reach a particular destination. We can make the same journey time and time again, and we don't need some gadget to do that either."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "We cannot shadowshift as well as imladril, but we are both fairly proficient at it. If you want to come along for a walk with us, just let us know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shook her head. "I'm curious, but i don't know that i want to go any further."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Its not a problem. But i'm sure you know from your culture that magic and mystery are around us all the time, whether we choose to acknowledge it or not."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz nodded. "I do know that, that's why i'm not sure about getting involved. Sorcery isn't something to play with, its deadly serious. But you fellas don't look like typical sorcerers, and you don't behave like them either."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I asked "What does a typical sorcerer look like and behave like?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, formidable old men and women. A bit scarey. They do strange things. I never thought of them as young. But you fellas are young, and so is imladril. I saw what she did, but i find it hard to believe she is really that old."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I find it hard to believe she's that old too. But danny and i are hoping we can live that long and look that good when we get there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is that possible? I mean, could you really plan on living eight hundred years?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini shrugged "I don't see any harm in trying. Its not as if we're hurting anyone."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So how old are you two?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I grinned "How old do we look?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, you look about thirty, nalini looks a bit younger. Don't tell me your really hundreds of years old too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah! We're both in our early thirties. No mystery there." i replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz smiled back. "That's a relief actually. It'd be scarey if you were really old."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                    ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril returned late that same day with paula. Paula is five feet nine or ten inches tall, very slim, with quite pale skin which she emphasizes with pale make up. Her hair is died black and cut in a page boy style, her eyes are green, and she wears multiple ear studs and nose stud. She has a penchant for bright red lipstick and matching nail varnish. Today she was wearing black shorts and matching t-shirt cut short to reveal her navel jewellery.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She was happy to see us, but didn't quite seem her usual self. We made coffee and sat in the lounge room. Imladril prompted paula with "Paula has some news to tell you. Go on paula."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula looked suddenly nervous. "Uh.. Yes... Well, guys, you see.." She paused and took a deep breath. ".. I'm pregnant!" She stopped, maybe for dramatic effect.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini said "Really? When did this happen?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I said "Well, congratulations! Or is it commiserations?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Don't joke, Danny! This is serious! Besides, you could be the father!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Oops! "Umm, that was three or four months ago now. Its much more likely to be prospero isn't it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Well, it may be three months ago here, but i've been keeping track of the days, and i'm only a couple of weeks late. But imladril confirmed that i'm pregnant. So it could be you or prospero."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Okay, play it straight. I said lightly "Well, i guess you could have DNA tests done after the birth. If it turns out to be me you can sue me for paternity. Would you sue prospero if it turns out to be him?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She made a face. "I hadn't thought that far. I wasn't going to sue anyone. But what am i going to do?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini butted in. "Paula, i want to say a few things. First, i don't care if its danny's or not, you're still welcome to stay here. But what i wanted to say is that you can stay here like you have been, we'll help you look after it. You won't have to sue danny for paternity or anything. You're family now, so we'll take care of you. Second, your share of the gems from aquilonia is worth quite a lot. I'm having them appraised, obviously they're worth more if they're sold in small lots. When we know what they are worth, we can give you your share, or we can sell small bundles and split that up. We can talk about that later, but you may not need to work."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula's eyes were gleaming. "How much are they worth?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "We've divided them into a number of small bundles, and I'm having each bundle appraised separately. I don't want anyone who does the appraisal to know that there are more than what's in the bundle they have. And I don't want you telling anyone about them either, because we don't want to attract thieves. There's one hundred and seventy bundles, only eleven have been valued so far. They ranged from fifty five thousand to two hundred and seventy five thousand. The eleven averaged one hundred and thirty seven thousand...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Wow! You mean we're rich? The whole lot must be worth millions!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "We need to value them all so you are happy that you have a fair share. If the eleven are representative, the whole lot could be worth over twenty million. None of us need work again quite likely."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh... gosh! Umm... can I run around and scream?" Paula got up and danced a little jig. She sat down again and remarked "It kinda puts being pregnant into a new perspective, doesn't it? What am I going to do with all that money?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I chuckled "Spend some of it, invest some of it. Work at things that make you happy. Of course, one reason for not selling them all here is that most of the gems will be valuable in almost any shadow. Just don't do anything rash or in a hurry. We'll keep our business going, but we may change focus, and ignore jobs that aren't interesting. You can keep working here for as long as you want."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Kewl!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "Paula, i wouldn't mention to prospero that you suspect danny is the father. Does he know you're pregnant?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, he doesn't know yet. But i don't know if i want to have a baby at all!" Paula's excitement about money evaporated.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, if you don't want it, an abortion is easy to arrange." Nalini replied. Imladril looked surprised at this. Nalini continued "We can make the arrangements, and pay the bill. I think it's only an overnight, or it may be only a few hours, i don't know. Who else knows you're pregnant?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No one else, just you three."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right, then you could arrange to have an abortion and no one else would ever know." She leaned forward, took hold of paula's hand. "Can i give you some advice?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Palua nodded. Nalini continued "Abortion may seem the easy way out now, but if you do, i think you'll regret it later. My advice is to have the child, even if it does turn out to be danny's." She got up and came over to paula, putting her arm around her and giving her a hug. She thought to me "Come on danny, you too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril moved, and i sat on paula's other side, putting my arm around her. She put her arms around both of us, and hugged back. "Gee, thanks guys." She looked a little teary eyed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I commented "We'll manage paula. You'll be okay." After the hug, nalini and i moved back to our couch.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril commented "In my culture paula, there would be no question of having an abortion. Babies are always happy occasions. But there is also no stigma attached to having one out of wedlock, we don't have the concept of that. You're a grown woman, there's no problem about having a baby. In fact, the occurrences of life are only problems if we make them so."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "What will you tell prospero? He's going to realise you're pregnant soon. He'll probably want to do the right thing and marry you straight away."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, well, I like him a lot, but i don't know whether i want to marry him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "Marrying because you're pregnant is a bad idea."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula responded "But so's having a baby if i'm not married. What are my parents going to say?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril said "Paula, no one else needs to know for a while yet. I can perform something that will slow the growth rate down to perhaps one third, so it will take perhaps twenty five months to reach term. It will not harm the baby, but you will not show for another fifteen months. By that time you may well be married to prospero, and things can take their normal course with no social stigma. What is more, do not forget that you are spending time in shadows where time runs slower, so it could be much longer here before you start to show."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, now that's great! I can just put it off for a time. I like that." Paula had brightened visibly now. "I've already thought of the abortion angle, and i'd prefer not to have one. It's my baby, i don't want to kill it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril continued "Now, prospero will suspect you are pregnant if you do not have a period soon, so i suggest that you pretend to have one each month for some time to come. Please do not feel forced into taking any action such as marrying him, though i also would suggest that you have the baby."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, well, i always thought i'd get married some day, and then have kids, in that order, but not for some time to come. I was thinking of maybe not having kids until I was in my thirties."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril chuckled "Paula, i've had sixteen children over the centuries. They can be bothersome at times, but they are also fun. Eventually they grow up and go on to lead lives of their own. Do not forget that you will live for a long time, and you will be young for most of that time. We will all help you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini almost had the last word "Well there you go danny. You're going to be an uncle, and i'm going to be an auntie."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula nodded "That's the best way to think of it isn't it? I don't want to spoil things between you and danny."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i both shook our heads. "You can't" That was, still is, and always will be, the truth. Nalini and i are soulmates, real soulmates. No one can come between us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "But start thinking that danny is the father and that you should marry him will cause trouble between you and us." She said it lightly so as not to cause offence, and she smiled at paula.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Paula, we'll continue to treat you like a sister, but you gotta behave like a sister too." I was smiling.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula looked at the two of us for a moment, then smiled. "Hey, I like being referred to as danny's sister. Don't worry nalini, you can trust me around danny, i'm not gonna go climbing into bed with him. Strictly platonic, sisterly." Then she looked a little puzzled. "I really dunno what got into us that time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I do." she smiled. "You'd just had a close encounter with death, plus excitement, danger, adrenaline. It's a deep animal drive. Once danger is past, it often sparks sexual arousal." She shrugged. "I was there with you, I started it, I encouraged you. I've said it before, we can't go around blaming anyone. It happened, we have to find a way of dealing with it so we can get on with our lives. But we don't think that a menage a trois is the right way to go about it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was shaking her head "Uh... no, not really. I want to have a man of my own, not sharing someone else's."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini leaned forward. "It's all right paula, i trust you and danny together. And you have to admit it was fun at the time. We may do it again one day, who knows?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula suddenly giggled "Yeah. It was, wasn't it? I'm glad you guys aren't mad at me about that, or that the baby might be danny's."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril interrupted "Paula, in my culture, the baby's father is known, but fatherhood does not give the father any rights over the mother, or the mother any rights over the father. However, the parents do have joint responsibilities for the baby. I am happy to see nalini and danny sharing responsibility for your baby. Prospero too if you do end up marrying him, but it would be a mistake to pressure him, because in his culture if he is the father then he has to marry you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was nodding "I don't want to get married for some time, but i would prefer to be married before announcing I'm pregnant. So I'm happy for you to delay things for a couple of years."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril frowned. "I would prefer if we could simply announce your pregnancy, and have it be a joyous occasion. Your cultures are different from mine however, you three have to be happy with what ever you decide. The actual decision is not as important as taking responsibility for the decision, and being happy with the consequences."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula spread her hands. "It's okay guys, I'm happy with what we've decided. I'm also happy to be treated like danny's sister, and I'll try to behave like one."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We talked things over some more after imladril left. It may seem surprising to you the reader, but since nalini and i can link into one another's mind, we know how we each feel about this. Paula is treated like family, but none of us are interested in a menage a trois. At the same time, while we were being secretive about paula's pregnancy, we did not intend that it remain that way. Once the child was born we would certainly let it know who its father was. We just didn't want prospero behaving inappropriately because of his cultural background. Our attitude probably says something about what we thought of his permanency.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was from a culture that was roughly similar to renaisance europe, though there were differences. His initial reactions when he came to our shadow were comical, and can be imagined. Paula liked to visit his shadow, but had no intention of living there. Prospero spent some time in paula's shadow, but preferred his own, where he was advisor to the king, and next in line to the throne unless the king had heirs. To make matters worse, his mother did not approve of paula because she did not come from a noble family.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                     ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next morning, prospero and durathror arrived, riding horses. They let themselves into the backyard, where the dog raised a commotion. Prospero's horse was white, and heavily built for bearing a man in armor. Durathror's horse was lighter, longer of leg, and striped red and black like a tiger. This particular breed of horse was incredibly swift, and could easily outrun a cheetah.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror is Imladril's eldest brother, or rather half brother, since they share the same mother but not the same father. Like her, his skin is brown, his eyes green, and his hair blond, and braided into some fifty braids, each covered with beads. He is clean shaven except for a droopy moustache, also blond. He stands about five feet two inches tall, and is fairly muscular for his size. Today he was wearing a red and green tartan kilt, a green and brown jerkin, and brown riding boots.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero is about my height, slim and wiry. Like me his hair is brown and his eyes blue. He was dressed as a simple soldier in the king's guard, in baggy red trousers, sky blue jerkin, soft boots of brown leather, and a chain mail shirt made from ceramic links that nalini and i had fetched from some hi-tech shadow. His metal hat with linked plates that formed a neck protecter was tied to the saddle. He looked hot.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They unsaddled the horses and rubbed them down. Nalini and i brought out a tent like contraption intended for shading cars, and erected it to provide the horses with some shade. This wasn't the first time we'd had horses in the back yard. I also filled up an old baby's bath with water from the hose, running it for a while to get it cold.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula came running out in a t-shirt and panties, her hair wet, flinging herself into prospero's arms. They kissed, then she wrinkled her nose "Ugh! You smell of sweat and horses!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He grinned "We've been riding. I could do with a nice ... shower? I have not had a decent shower since I left here." His english was improving, but he still needed the translation spell.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Later, with everyone washed or showered, we sat down to a late breakfast. I had made a quick trip to the local bakery, and brought back crusty rolls, croissants, some pain chocolat, and a poppy seed scroll cake. Nalini and paula had already set out jams, honey, cheeses, some sliced meats and assorted pickles plus a bowl of fruit and another one of tomatoes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero sat down looking pleased with himself. "This conditioned air is wonderful in the heat!" He spooned several sugars into his coffee - he likes it sweet and black. "It still amazes me how cheap good coffee is in your shadow. I have a mind to set up a business to export your coffee to Tarantia. There it literally sells for its weight in gold!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You could halve the price and still make a fortune." I commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "Each time i come here i must purchase more coffee than last time, because the nobles and wealthy merchants want to taste it, and then they want some for themselves."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Why not take back a box of the grinders, pots for cooking it, maybe even several different varieties of coffee? There must be other things you can try too, like spices and so on."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero picked up one of the pain chocolats. "This is another item that we cannot buy back in tarantia, but there would be no point in importing this. It must be something light, valuable, and that can stay fresh for months. Spices is a good suggestion nalini. I should have thought of that myself." He began munching contentedly on the pain chocolat, washing it down with swigs of coffee.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula cut a croissant in half, layered sliced meat, cheese and tomatoes onto it. "You really enjoy your food don't you? I'd rather stick with savory stuff. That chocolate bread is too sweet for me." She sprinkled pepper over the tomato, put the other half of the croissant on top, and bit into it. "Now this is yummy!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror looked around the provendor, and decided to copy paula. "I don't usually eat flesh, but since it it here, and no one will be offended, I will try what you are having."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i don't like the burned butter taste of croissants, so we tend to stay with the crusty bread. I put cheese, vegemite and tomato on one. Prospero watched me spread the black vegemite paste and commented "I don't know what you people see in that. It's too salty for my taste."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's probably the only thing here that could be called Australian." I chuckled. "I don't think anyone else eats the stuff, even nalini doesn't like it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, I prefer peanut paste." said she, spreading some on half a bread roll.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What is vegemite?" Durathror asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey! I like it too!" Paula interrupted, mouth full. "It's a savory yeast paste. Try it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Vegemite is a brand name, there are other similar ones like Marmite, Promite and so on. They're made from yeast, so they're a good source of B vitamins. Different brands have different amounts of sugar and salt, but this is one food that is made only in Australia."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini chuckled "Yes, everyone else has better sense!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero went to the frig, came back with a jar of anchovies and another one of black olives, along with a couple of cloves of garlic. "I'm glad you buy the greek kalamata ones, the spanish olives are too oily."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He sat down again, appropriated a bread roll. "I know we need extra salt in summer. This is how I like to do it!" He chopped a clove of garlic and spread it over half of the bread roll. Then he fished out several anchovies and laid them on top, drizzling the oil around. Finally he sliced five or six black olives and spread them on top. "This is similar to what the peasants around my estates do."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula made a face. "Ugh! And you say vegemite is too salty! I hope you don't expect me to kiss you after eating that!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Aggrieved, he complained "Hey yourself! You eat raw onions!" He took a bite, munched, then commented "What this really needs is some robust wine to wash it down with."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "For breakfast?" paula exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror said simply "I would like some wine too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I stood up. "Okay prospero, you can help me select one."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He followed me into the storage area of the garage, when I keep most of the wine. We selected a two liter flask of chianti and returned. I had barely opened it when liz arrived for work. We invited her to join us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Phew! It's such a relief to get into the air conditioning!" She kicked her shoes off in the corridor. "Be with you in a minute" She headed into the downstairs bathroom and returned a few minutes later, giving us time to set a sixth place at the table between durathror and prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Breakfast ended up being a leisurely affair. Durathror headed off afterwards, taking prospero's horse with him, and promising to return in two weeks to take prospero home. He also promised to bring several pack horses for any goods prospero decided to import.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 No one really felt like working after that, but there were invoices to get out for clients, plus some word processing. Paula and liz both worked on that, allowing us to be finished before lunch. Nalini and i delivered the urgent work and posted the invoices while the girls finished stuff that was required tomorrow morning.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I then drove liz home so she could collect her swimming costume and change into something more suitable for the beach. I specifically asked her to dress for walking, and take a bag she could sling on her back. She was excited about the prospect of collecting a day's pay while spending time at the beach. She emerged wearing denim shorts, sand shoes with no socks, t-shirt with a picture of leaping dolphins on it, and carrying her beach bag.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The others were all ready and waiting when we returned. Nalini had packed a light back pack for me as well.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Where are we going? Danny's been hinting about somewhere good, but he won't let on. I practically lived on the beach at Straddie when I was a kid. It's a pity Brizzie doesn't have beaches as good."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Brisbane's beaches tend to be a bit muddy because of the mud in the Brisbane, Logan and Southport rivers that run into Morton Bay. Stradbroke and Morton Bay islands separate the bay from the Coral Sea, they have clean white sandy beaches, but can only be reached by ferry from Cleveland, a journey that takes about an hour. Other good beaches are the surf beaches of the Gold Coast to the south, and the Sunshine Coast to the north. The Gold Coast is an hour's drive, while the Sunshine Coast is an hour and a half drive. In January they are crowded with holiday makers from colder climates along with day trippers from Brisbane.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled. "Well, we know a lovely resort beach about twenty minutes walk through shadow from here. Paula and Prospero have been there before, though I'm not sure if either of them could find there way back yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "Oh... it won't hurt will it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero shook his head "No, it doesn't hurt a bit. But I have trouble enough shifting through five shadows and back again. If you trust me you could wind up anywhere at all, maybe even the moon!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula commented thoughtfully "I can think of three beaches we've been to. I'm not sure if I could find my way there though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "All right, you're off the hook for now, but I think it would be good if you had some practice on the way home." She turned to Liz. "Basically, there's nothing to it. You just stay with the rest of us. The scenery will change around us as we walk. Explanations won't mean much to you until you have the basic skills, so just watch and enjoy."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We shouldered out packs and walked into the back yard. Nalini locked up while i put the dog onto a leash. She went from sound asleep to bouncing with excitement in zero flat as soon as I rattled the chain of the leash.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini began explaining to liz as we walked through the gate. "Movement seems to be an integral part of shifting. Korum, the person who taught me fifteen years ago, claimed that movement wasn't necessary, but we've all found that we can't shift unless we are moving. It's as if open a doorway to another shadow, and we have to move forward to go through the door."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "You may not understand all this right now liz, but just listen to what we say, understand what you can. Right now nalini and i have opened up our perceptions to the other shadows, and we are surrounded by impressions of possibly hundreds of adjacent shadows."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Um... so what do they look like?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, it's like when you can see things in your mind's eye. They aren't ghostly overlays or anything, they're quite separate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Many of them are very similar to our own. For example, do you see that flowering bush over there? There is another shadow where there is a bush in a similar place, but the flowers are red instead of yellow...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 External reality shimmered briefly, and the bush had red flowers. The street seemed much the same, although the houses were slightly different designs.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh!" Liz exclaimed. "How did you do that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The rest of us were grinning. Nalini replied "That will have to wait until you have had some basic training. Let's just say I selected the shadow we were talking about, and moved us into it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz stopped, was looking around. The dog was straining against the leash, wanting us to continue. "So this is a real parallel world? Just like ours, only different?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, they probably even speak english with an Australian accent." I replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You don't know for sure?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shook my head. "There are an infinite number of shadows. We sometimes go exploring to discover new places, but normally we just pass through on our way to somewhere else. I'm often curious about shadows we pass through, but most of them we never find anything about, and we may never pass through again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How do you mean that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula jumped in. "Hey I can answer that one. All of the shadows move in different directions. So a shadow that is near right now may not be reachable in five minutes. In fact, I can't seem to see our home shadow now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's still there." nalini answered. "But it is moving away. As danny said, we don't normally explore randomly. We can move into any adjacent shadow and start looking around, like right now. There may be good beaches here, but we don't know, and it will take some time to find out. Let's start walking again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Reality swirled again, and we were back in our own street. "This one looks familiar." liz remarked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is ours." nalini replied. "We can discover new places by exploring, but to goto a specific destination we need to be able to visualize it. That works best if we've actually been there, or visited in in dreaming. Danny and i have experimented with photos, but we often get somewhere similar, but not quite the same - like that shadow we just stopped in."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were walking down the street. I switched us to a shadow where the street was narrower, the houses single story. Across the valley there were no houses, only trees and scrub, plus power pylons running off into the distance.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thanks danny. It's hard to talk and shift at the same time." She continued her explanations to liz. "What we're doing is visualizing our destination. That gives us a sense of direction, and distance."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We continued down the road toward the park. A couple of kids on skate boards zoomed past, baseball caps on backwards. I shifted again, and we were walking along a dirt track between farms, under a lemon yellow sky. The distant hills and valley had vanished, but off to the left were several truncated volcanic cones like the stumps of broken teeth. If anything, it was hotter here.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "As far as we know, there are two methods for navigating through shadows. Korum, the man who taught me, spoke of adding and subtracting features, gradually changing shadows until he reached his destination. That would mean many small changes like the first shift. We find that difficult because many more shifts are required."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shifted us again, seeking somewhere cooler. The sky switched to pale pink with delicate orange clouds dotted here and there. We were walking across a dusty red plain. The soil was rust red, the sparse vegetation had broad flat reddish brown leaves. Low trees with gnarled black trunks and blood red spikey leaves grew in a clump near by. Our track was no more than a goat trail. It was cooler now, but still warm.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We find it easier to select shadows more or less on a direct line with our destination. This is what danny is doing at present. It can mean very abrupt shifts, but there are less of them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz interrupted "This is going way over my head you know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right, just enjoy the walk then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was trying for a straight line to our destination, but not all shadows are safe. It is possible to sense danger before shifting in, so I was testing for danger, and then avoiding shadows that hinted at danger. Sometimes dangers were things like wild beasts, wars, pits of molten lava, mine fields and the like, but more often they were unknown dangers from strange shadows. They could vary from poisonous atmosphere, no atmosphere or crushing pressure, extreme heat like venus, or just wierd shadows where the rules of physics were sufficiently different that the processes necessary to sustain life could not occur. There are a large number of those weird shadows, quite possibly more than inhabitable ones.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Korum's method of shifting tended to avoid strange shadows and most of the dangers, but he could also shift several times a second. We could not. Normally nalini and i take about a minute to set up the next shift; we can shift faster in life threatening situations, but it tires us rapidly and puts us at risk of running into random dangers.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 My next shift was to a similar terain, except the vegetation was bluish grass. In the distance giraffe like creatures pruned some of the taller trees. The horizon was a huge snow capped mountain range that ringed us and glinted redly in the sun.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz stopped "Hey! I should've brought my camera! This is spectacular!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think the rest of us grinned - we've all had that reaction. Nalini rummaged in my pack, brought out our camera and  handed it to liz. "We always carry one with us, we often photograph shadows of interest so we can remember them more easily. I guess danny and i are a little blase about things now, but take all the photos you want."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero took out a pair of high powered binoculars. "I know there is a lot of fantastic technology in your home shadow, but to me something as simple as a pair of binoculars is perhaps the most impressive." He was looking in the direction of the giraffe like creatures as he spoke. "Those creatures are magnificent. They resemble giraffes, but their necks are more sinuous like snakes. Their markings are odd too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero handed the binoculars to paula, and took out his own camera. His was more expensive than ours, and came complete with a set of telephoto lenses. He wasn't a real camera buff - he tended to forget he was carrying it unless someone reminded him. But he had learned what was good, and knew a lot about how to use it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We took some photos, including holiday snaps of liz, and then continued. While I was trying for a reasonably direct route, I was also trying for more interesting shadows.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our next shift took us to a wide rocky ledge above clouds. There was almost no wind, but the breeze was quite chilly. The rock itself was dark blue black, the sky deep violet. Small spectacularly orange shrubs grew from little crannies in the cliff. The sun was not visible, but we looked out across the tops of creamy lavender clouds. There was a scent of rose petals in the air.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula and prospero both complained that they could not detect the shadows nalini and i were choosing from.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "You're both fledgeling shadowshifters, it will take some time before you are proficient. Your powers will grow, and you will be able to detect more shadows."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 For our next shift nalini and i debated several choices. We selected something a little different, but weren't aware of some of the differences.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stepped into a huge enclosed area with a swimming pool. The first thing we noted was that the air pressure was less, causing our ears to pop; the second thing was that the gravity was also a lot less,maybe two thirds of earth normal. That made walking a little difficult, since the forward motion in walking and running is achieved by leaning forward in and letting gravity pull your feet back to the ground. In a lower gravity that takes longer than you anticipate, plus you tend to spring into the air which compounds the problem.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Wow!" from paula.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Jeez!" from liz.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We all stopped.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The floor was tiled in what looked like pink quarry tiles with a roughened surface that would be non slip when wet. The room was huge, accomodating an olympic size swimming pool, deck chairs, tables and some tiered seating. The people were human, but quite tall and thin with very large chests, mostly naked, a mixture of skin colors. The far wall and roof were transparent, huge panes of glass hung from girders. The roof was probably ten meters or higher. Through the glass we could see a martian like landscape, all harsh red rocks, and in the distance a high red cliff. The sky was a deep pink, shading into indigo toward the zenith.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is incedible! We can't still be onearth can we?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm not sure liz, we'd have to stop and ask people questions to find that sort of information out..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Speaking of which" nalini interrupted "I'd like to come back here some other day. I'll take some photos."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good idea. As i was saying, we'd have to stop, and often that can cause problems. We stand out as strangers, so they may be suspicious of us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Also, this is higher tech than home, that can cause problems." nalini added. "Often we need ids but can't get them, the money is all electronic, and we can't do that without ids; there's a whole raft of problems. Danny and I will come back and look around in dreaming first, find out a few things, determine if it is a good place to stop."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's something else I have to ask about. Visiting in dreaming. You say that like dreams are real."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They can be. Everyone has three bodies, the physical, the dreaming, and the spiritual. The dreaming body doesn't always coincide, especially when we're asleep. Dreams are the garbled recollections of the dreaming body. If you start learning sorcery, this is where you start. You have to bring your waking consciousness into your dreaming body, and then you can direct where it goes, and you can recall what it has experienced and make sense of that. Your dreams change from ordinary dreams to lucid dreaming, or dreaming for short. You must know something about that, your people have their stories of the dreamtime, they have reasons why they call it the dreamtime."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hmmm. I don't think that was part of it. But I would have to ask the elders, they're the keepers of the dreamtime stories." Suddenly she pointed with her head. "Hey! Are those people over there having sex?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I looked in the direction she indicated, and spied a tangle of male and female bodies seeming intent on giving and receiving sexual pleasure. There were some distance away, but still in full public view.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Looks like it. This could be a very interesting shadow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey prospero" came paula's voice "I hope you're not planning on using those binoculars to perve?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It was not my intention to look at them. I want to study the cliffs out there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 People were looking at us, but no one approached. I guess we looked different enough to attract attention. "Let's keep moving, and surprise all the onlookers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We started walking toward the pool, faded out after five steps, leaving a rainbow after image. I don't know what the onlookers thought. Maybe we made the local headlines.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next shadow was even stranger. The sky was black, but a huge green globe hung there, looking like a planet with clouds. Swirling shades of green that gave reflected light many more times brighter than that of a full moon. The ground was tesselated with black and white tiles, each one about a meter square. The gravity was slightly heavier, but still much less than earth. In the distance were blocky structures reminiscent of city buildings, some black and white, others tesselated silver and gold, and still others green mother of pearl. There were creatures moving around the buildings, odd looking creatures that looked like boxy replica insects constructed from a child's leggo set. It was hard to gauge the scale though.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We walked slowly. When travelling through shadows, what determines your speed is how often you shift, not how fast you travel within a shadow. A particular destination may be twenty or thirty shifts away, the exact number will change with time as the shadows twist and dance around each other; traveling fast within a shadow will have little effect on the number of shifts required unless you happen to luck on a position that is closer or more distant. While we can detect shadows around where we happen to be, we cannot detect locations where they converge on the current shadow.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Another twelve steps and we shifted to a green world. The sky was green, the hot sun eye seering green, the broad leafed foliage brilliant green. We were walking across short emerald green grasses in a clearing beside a stream. Even the rocks were covered with green furry growths. Brightly colored birds flitted through the trees. The jungle was filled with strange sounds - grunts, coughs, screeches, and other noises less identifiable. Heady floral scents drifted on the breeze. Air pressure and gravity close to earth normal.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We walked by the stream for a minute or so, almost reaching the edge of the clearing. Then we were walking over a wooden walkway extending out from the steep sides of an extinct volcano. The path wound around several other steep sided cones. A dark blue ocean washed directly onto the bases of the volcanoes, splashing us from time to time. The slopes were mostly hard igneous rock, but crevices collected soil, from which sprouted fleshy leaved plants like pigface, with small pink and blue flowers. White seabirds hovered overhead screaming into the ocean wind. The sky was the color of fresh cream with pale yellow clouds scudding by.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next shift took us somewhere colder. Now we walked along a cliff top overlooking a dark sea to our right that washed onto black sand or pebbles. The sky was deep rust red, the sun a dull yellow orb. Grey clouds were piling up out to sea, promise of a storm to come. We walked on low tufted brown grasses, further back the scrub grew leaning away from the sea, evidence of the power of the wind. Even the gnarled spiny leaved trees grew lopsidedly. The coast curved round to a point, along that distant curve we could see white buildings with black roofs.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Another shift, to grey skies with some blue. We walked along a stone quay beside a broad brown river. Cool, but not too cold. To our left a cobbled street and stone buildings with a georgean look. They seemed strangely familiar. Modern looking cars in the street. Ahead a low stone bridge and on the other side a tall metal tower we all recognized. People in light modern clothing walking around.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey! Is this Paris? That looks like the Eiffel Tower over there!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Or one of its analogues. There are any number of shadow Parises. Nalini and i have visited several."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, i don't care. I gotta get me some pictures!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We took some photos, then walked along the banks of the seine for a while. Liz was excited, wanting to stay here.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "Liz, enjoy the walk, but if you want to explore one of the Paris shadows, you'd best set aside a few days and make a special trip. We'll take you one day, or you can learn shadow shifting and take yourself."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You're tempting me into learning you know!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That might just be part of the idea." nalini grinned.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shifted us just before we reached the bridge, and now it was night. We walked over sand, and directly ahead was the Eiffel tower lit up like a christmas tree. Fountains sprayed in the play of colored lights, and tourists of all types wandered around.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Another shift and we walked a trackless wilderness. All around us was a martian landscape of weathered orange rocks and tall hills. These were banded with different colors of orange and red, showing that they were once part of the sea floor. The sky was a deep violet, clear of clouds. Behind us was a small bluish sun. It was hot here.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next shift brought us to the side of a hill, on dew drenched green grass. We looked out across grey fog to the black silhouettes of distant pine trees. It was predawn light, we stopped to watch as the sky shaded from brown through brilliant reds, yellows to green. An orange ball peeped over the horizon, turning the fog the color of orange juice. Liz took more photos, then we continued.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That sun rise was magnificent!" Liz exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, often when we are out shadow shifting we stop here and there along the way to admire the view or smell the roses. There is so much to see, and every shadow is different." nalini replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini shifted us to a warmer shadow. We walked along the red sand of a sea shore, leaving our footprints in the otherwise virginal sand. To our left sand dunes stretched away, covered with coarse yellow grasses. Dark sedimentary rocks dotted the shore line, the sea was smooth as glass. Overhead the sky was pale orange, while fluffy white clouds drifted by. The sun was lime green, making all of us look billious. In the distance we could see something darker bobbing on the sea.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero peered through his binoculars. "It looks like three natives in a dugout canoe. They seem to be fishing with spears." He handed the binoculars around; we all took a look.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's peaceful here. How much further dowe have to go?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Only another five or six shifts, Liz. I don't know about you, but I'm working up an appetite."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz giggled "I'm always hungry! That's why I'm overweight."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 What would people make of footprints that started in the middle of the shore, walked about thirty meters, and vanished again? Mark it as one of life's little mysteries, or file it under X for X-files?}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next shadow wasn't as welcoming. A blood red sky, under a blood red sun. A few small blue grey clouds scudding by. A landscape of harsh black basalt, with some scruffy dark shrubs growing here and there. Further off a small village. In the distance snow capped peaks glinting as if bloodstained.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Through prospero's binoculars the village looked like wattle and daub with thatch roofs. Unkempt looking people in skins walked around, women bare breasted, the men carrying spears or clubs. Some of the women were butchering a kill, a large four legged animal. There was no head visible, but it might have been a bear or similar - its legs were thick and clawed rather than thin and hoofed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We shifted again to another rocky sea shore, this time with pale orange sand and gravel, and some larger dark rocks. The ocean was to our left this time, the waves rolled onto the shore with resounding crashes. Further around the rocks clumped together, and people had build a lighthouse there. Back from that was a parking lot with some older looking cars parked. The styles reminded me of the 1940s. There were some people wandering between the light house complex and the car park, they seemed to have a bluish tinge to their pale skins. Most were dressed in baggy white pantaloons and long jerkins. Males seemed to wear dark red turbans on their heads, females wore long blue waistcoats and tied their hair into braids, colied on either side of their heads. The sky was completely covered with grey clouds, we could not see the sun or the sky.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next shift took us away from the sea, to a ruined city under a dark purple sky. Some walls still stood here and there, but most looked as if they had been pushed over. Red vegetation partly covered many of the fallen stones. A double row of broken columns lined a paved street, reddish grasses growing between the light grey stones. Further up the hill was a broad staircase that lead nowhere now. We walked past the columns and followed the paved road until we shifted again.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Back to civilization again. We were walking across a bridge over a broad brown river. The bridge may have spanned one hundred and fifty to about two hundred meters. There was a raised footpath on either side, stone balustrading on the river side, and four lanes of black top for cars. The cars were big, with 1950s style fins and lots of chrome, and drove on the left, European or American style. The sky was pale green. Most of the people were asiatic looking, the women wearing cheong sams, the men mao style suits. Quite a few of them looked at us as we walked by.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next shift was to a shadow with a yellow sky. Furnace like heat blasted us, the sun stood high in the sky like a baleful blue eye. A dark green sea stretched out to our left, washing against salt encrusted rocks. The shore was rocky, and fairly flat, extending away to our right to a distant escarpment. In the distance some brown shapes moved, too distant to make out.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We shifted again, walking out on rust red sand under a lavender sky. The beach extended along the shore for several hundred meters at least with a rocky promontory at either end. Groups of people were dotted along the shore, some lying on colorful beach towels, some sitting in deck chairs, some just walking. Others were swimming around in the calm green water. Back from the beach was a small rise covered in palm trees. Behind them stretched an unbroken line of holiday apartments, rising six storeys only. Behind them tall peaks rose into the sky, the distant ones tall enough to be snow capped.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We're here." nalini announced.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey! This is great!" Liz exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "In amongst the palm trees is a board walk running the length of the beach, and behind that is shops and sidewalk cafes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "This is an island something like hawaii, but the peaks are taller. There is permanent snow cover up there, and a ski resort tucked between those two peaks over there." she pointed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero remarked "I have been here once I think, but I could not have found my way here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula commented "I think I might have been able to find this place, but it would have taken more shifts, I couldn't see any of those shadows you were shifting into."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That all comes with practice. Liz, the most important techniques of visualization and selecting shadows have to be learned in dreaming first, because our dreaming body can already slip through shadows." I commented. "I don't know if you have ever had a dream of visiting some familiar place, only to find it isn't completely familiar?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She nodded. "That happens from time to time. It looks like a place I know, but something is different."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Exactly. That is a different shadow, an analogue of our own. Just like we went through two different copies of Paris today. Anyway, before we go and get some food, we might all like to go for a dip."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz dropped her shorts and removed her t-shirt to reveal a red one piece. "I can see the dog wants to as well. Let her off the leash. C'mon!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I let the dog off, and the two of them charged into the water. The rest of us had to find change rooms first, and lockers in which to stow our belongings. Then we joined liz in the water. Paula and nalini went topless, as is the fashion here.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It didn't take liz long to realise she was the odd one out in her one piece. Nalini promised "After lunch we'll go shopping and buy you one."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You don't need to do that. I can buy my own."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled. "Except that your money isn't any good here." Neither was ours for that matter, but nalini and i could change the notes and coins into something acceptable here with a little bit of sorcery. "Liz, time to stop thinking of yourself as an employee now. You're part of our extended family, otherwise you wouldn't be here in the first place."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Later we showered and dressed and went looking for lunch. Liz kept pointing out dogs sitting or lying by tables we passed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's okay liz, dogs are allowed in restaurants here, as long as they are on leashes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were many different restaurants and cafes on the sidewalk. Prospero declared "We have to keep coming here until I have eaten every dish in every restaurant! It is truly amazing the variety of food here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini laughed "That'll test you, prospero. There must be hundreds of restaurants here, I'm sure some of them will close down before you ever get to them!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe so, but I can try! This is a food connoisseur's idea of paradise!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The place at which we ate even had thirty seven varieties of beer. Prospero complained "I despair of trying them all, but perhaps I can sample several with danny while you girls go shopping afterwards?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 All of us sampled different beers during lunch, which meant two of the girls were a little giggly by the time they went shopping. Nalini has had more practice, and doesn't get tipsy easily.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented to liz and paula as they walked off "Poor danny, he was so hoping to watch us try on swimsuits."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "You don't mind him looking at other girls' tits?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No. We like guys to admire our tits, why can't he admire any girl's tits? Besides, he may look around, but his eyes always come back to me." The rest of the conversation faded out.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They returned an hour later, and we all changed back into swimsuits. Liz came over to where prospero and i were waiting, and paraded. "Nalini says it's okay for you two to admire."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero looked, nodded. "Nice pair. Nice orange swim suit too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I had to laugh, because he was obviously wanting to look without letting paula see him staring. "You look good liz. C cup?" Liz nodded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula paraded up. "Okay guys, you can admire me too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula, you're always fishing for compliments. You know you look good, you know we watch you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We spent most of the afternoon in the water, ate a huge dinner, then walked around the shops for a while before heading back home. Paula was a little tipsy so nalini and i did the shifting. The proviso about not drinking and driving also applies to shadow shifting.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We arrived home after ten, where upon nalini and i drove liz home. "That was a really great day. Thank you. Can we do it again?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course" we both assented. "Why not bring your walking gear, swimwear and maybe some sports clothes over to our place and leave them there? That way we won't have to keep driving you home to pick it up. As long as the day's work gets done we're more than happy to take off for the rest of the day. We'll go to different places too, and visit some of the more interesting shadows we pass through."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's great, thanks! Mind you, I'm not likely to wear a topless bikini anywhere around here, am i? Hey, what do I tell my folks?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Just tell them you went down the gold coast with us, and you'll be going regularly. All you have to do is phone them when you're going so they will know you'll be home late."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As it was all her family were sitting out the front in the cooler evening air when we arrived, and we were invited for a drink. It was just as well we all had the story straightened out before hand.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Thereafter we made similar trips most days. Liz decided she liked the idea enough to contemplate learning how to shadowshift. That entailed dreaming practice. We managed to find liz in dreaming, but she continually became distracted by her surroundings, as dreamers usually do. She also had trouble remembering her dreams. For the time being it came down to practice and perseverence. If she showed enough aptitude, Imladril would provide her with a torc that would boost her energies, and make subsequent learning much easier.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That could take time. In my own case, nalini was teaching me in dreaming for almost two years before I was given my torc. This was longer than usual, but then I had no contact with nalini outside dreaming during that time.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We also gave Liz a series of energy exercises, some passive like meditation, some active body movements; some best done alone, some to be done with nalini and myself.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero spent some of his time buying coffee, some spices and baking powder (the ingredient that makes self raising flour rise). He had watched nalini and i bake cakes, and remarked "To me it is amazing that you can put the batter in to the oven as soon as it is mixed. We still use yeast based baking. A pastry chef must wait several hours for the batter to rise before it can be baked. This powder will revolutionize baking in my shadow!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We know. It's had that effect in ours. Most baking here doesn't use yeast now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He grinned. "Yes, I have now had some experience with cakes and pastries in your shadow. They are far superior to the creations in my shadow. But this will change!" His eyes were flashing with excitement - talking about food does that to him. We wished him success.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 About two weeks later Durathror turned up with prospero's horse and two pack animals. He took one look at the amount of baggage prospero wanted to take, and shook his head. "We will need more animals."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula butted in with "Hey Durathror, can you get a horse for me to please? I'm going back with prospero."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror stayed with us, some three hours later his wife Ra'anor arrived with three more pack animals and a horse for paula. Ra'anor is from a different people, her skin is pale, her hair red, though braided similarly to durathror's. She wore a green kilt, soft brown riding boots and a green jerkin. Her face has a large tattoo of a spider web emblazoned across it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She stayed long enough to freshen up and eat while prospero and durathror loaded up the pack animals, then they all departed. The house seemed suddenly empty, but it also meant that nalini and i had privacy again.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Of course, things never stay that way for long. Paula and Ra'anor returned a week and a half later. Paula was excited "I've managed to find my way to several different destinations. I even navigated the last part of the way here!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor added "She is getting better all the time. She still cannot sense your shadow from the viharani shadow, but she can sense further now than before. If you can have paula do the shifting on shorter journeys, it will be good practice for her."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I were in the middle of cleaning the house; Ra'anor and Paula pitched in, and soon enough it was done. A little later we sat down to lunch.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini had cooked a chinese style soup using chicken broth, vegetables, noodles and some chicken. Ra'anor remarked "I didn't think you people ate meat? Or do you make an exception for poultry?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini made a face. "We have two confirmed meat eaters living here now, so we have meat that must be used up. Neither danny nor i have pieces of chicken, just you two." She smiled "So enjoy your meal."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paaula waited until we were drinking coffee afterwards to make her announcement. "I had a long discussion with Ra'anor about pregnancies and babies. She says that you're the father danny."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I looked at paula and raised my eyebrows. This issue wasn't going to go away, we had to ensure that all three of us (perhaps four if we included prospero) were happy with the resolution. "Nalini and I suspected as much. We guessed that the energy activation over-rode your contraception."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor was nodding. Nalini asked "How canyou tell Ra'anor?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Once you can see auras, you will be able to recognize the father's aura because it is initially present with the baby. Once the baby is born, the aura loses most of the influences from the parents. But I am sure that you are the father danny."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini thought to me <<I wonder what paula wants?>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Don't know - I guess we'll have to try to find out.>>. Aloud i said "Among the viharani that isn't a problem. Here there are cultural problems - paula isn't supposed to be pregnant before she gets married, nalini and i are a couple, so i'm not supposed to fathering children on anyone else. But apart from that we're going to do all we can to look after paula and her daughter."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor looked at me "Who said it was a girl? Maybe you've been talking to her spirit?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I don't know why i said that - it just seems appropriate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor nodded. "Time will tell. Now, I want to say something to all of you. All the cultural problems are crap - you three are bigger than that. You all need to look at things from our cultural perspective for a change. Danny, you and nalini are a couple, you love each other very deeply, so it shouldn't matter if either of you has a fling with someone else. If paula wasn't with prospero, I might even suggest the three of you set up house together as partners. Paula loves both of you, and I know you both love her. But two couples is a better situation; I'm encouraging paula to see how things develop with prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula, it's your baby, the primary responsability for rearing it is yours. Danny has the second responsability, nalini is his partner, so she shares that responsability. They are letting you live here, and treating you as his sister, they will obviously help you raise the child. That's as much as you need from them, you're an independent person.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If things do work out with prospero, you'll need to decide what you tell him and when. But tell him you must, because we will ensure the child knows who her father is. There is no need to tell him yet, not until you know how things stand between the two of you.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Since you are with prospero, I do not suggest you visit danny and nalini's bed, unless you feel that prospero has grown enough to handle that. And even then, do not visit unless danny and nalini invite you, and be prepared to extend the same freedoms to prospero."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was actually blushing. "Ummm... I wasn't going to er... visit their bed as you put it..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled at her. "Why not paula? You came uninvited to visit danny's bed once before, and that's what started all this. Invited is different. That means we've both decided we want you there. And didn't you tell us you'd had a lesbian relationship in the past?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was recovering her composure. "Yes, but don't tell prospero that! He wouldn't understand!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He might understand a lot better than you think. But if we invite you into our bed, he doesn't need to know. But Ra'anor is right, you'd have to extend the same courtesy to him. Could you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I don't ask him what he does when he's away from me, so maybe I do. But i wasn't going to come between you and danny."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You can't paula" i said emphatically "no matter what you try. Our feelings for each other are too strong."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini giggled. "Oh, I don't know danny. If we put her in the middle, I'm sure she could come between us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I suddenly saw exactly what she was playing at: get paula to admit she didn't want a menage a trois or to marry me, to decide she was happy with the role of defacto sister. Of course, it could backfire. I grinned. "Well, we could take turns and keep her coming for quite a while. After all, she comes quite easily."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was now looking from nalini to me and back again, mouth open, her cheeks turning crimson. Ra'anor was looking amused.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "Of course she'd have to reciprocate, take turns with you to pleasure me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Listen guys, I'm not setting up a menage a trois with you, and I'm not marrying danny, I'm not even going to share your bed, ok? Even if you do invite me. But I do want you to help me care for the baby."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "That's no problem paula. We'll treet you like my sister and danny's sister. We've always said that." Suddenly she stuck her chest out and primped a little. "But not even if we invite you? What's the matter paula, don't you find me attractive?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think it dawned on paula then, because she nodded to herself. She smiled "Nalini, I thought you weren't bisexual."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, I'm not. You're the only girl I've been with, I have no desire to be with another girl. But Ra'anor's right, we both love you, so I'll make an exception for you. That is of course unless you find only danny sexually attractive."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was blushing, but her grin widened. I think she decided to call nalini's bluff. "Oh no, nalini, I find both of you sexually attractive. I enjoyed it then, I'm sure I'd enjoy it again. If you invite me that is. But nalini, do you find me sexually attractive?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini looked at paula for a moment, made a rueful smile, then laughed. "Paula, I never have been attracted to other women, but somehow I must be seeing you through danny's eyes, because somehow I do find you attractive. It's probably to do with the energy exchanges between the three of us. Danny and I have talked this over, he feels it too, so we presume you must as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula nodded. Nalini leaned forward to touch paula's hand. "Paula, I would prefer if this had never happened, but it has. We all have to make the best of it. We will treat you like a sister, help you with the baby. I don't think any of us want to turn this into a menage a trois..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh uh." Paula shook her head. "It'll be hard enough telling my parents I'm pregnant, let alone something like that. Plus I want a man of my own. Although, since we're being honest, if danny was available, I'd go for him..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini said gently "But he's not paula; I'm glad you realize that. And since we're being honest, should something ever happen to me, so that danny becomes available, you'd have my blessing. He needs a good woman to look after him, and you qualify."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She signalled me, we both got up and sat on either side of paula, hugging her. Ra'anor quietly stood and left the room. I spoke "Paula, we both love you, no matter what happens, we'll take care of you, look after you. We can make this work, if you're willing. We're willing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She hugged us back. "Thanks guys." She kissed my cheek, I realized she was crying. She kissed nalini. "I love you both." She broke into quiet sobs, while we sat and hugged her, rubbed her back. "I didn't want to be pregnant... No, I feel I kinda spoiled it for us..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Things happen paula. It's how we react to them that's important. You're loved, you're important, you're part of our family now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula's tears stopped as quickly as they started. "Thanks guys, I think I just needed reassurance, and a hug."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula, if you need a hug, anytime, just come and get it off either of us. Okay?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Paula, if you find yourself feeling lonely at night..." she hesitated, consulted me, then continued "..or horny, you're welcome to join us. I mean that, we mean that, we're giving you an open invitation, just don't abuse it, all right? And remember, we sleep naked."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula giggled "I know, so do I these days." She drew a breath, became serious. "Thanks again guys, I won't abuse it, but I will take you up on it sometime. Both of you, together. But not when prospero's around." She squeezed both of us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 To me nalini thought <<Oh danny! What have I let us in for?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<I know how you feel. Half of you wants to, the other half doesn't. But it doesn't affect how we feel about each other. Is it right? I don't know, in the end it comes back to choices we can live with and choices we can't.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<I know we can live with this. Paula won't be hurt this way, though prospero might. We can love more than one person, I'm sure of that. But now she knows she can come to our bed, she's less likely to want to. I think anyway. I guess all we can do is see how things develop.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Forbidden fruit huh? I agree, she's less likely to try. As long as we have each other, I don't care what paula does.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<chuckle. It could be fun hey?>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Later, I was outside hanging some washing on the line, and paula came out to help. "I can't believe how things have turned out you know. Nalini almost shocked me today. But i've been thinking about what she said, and she's right - I do love both of you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And we both love you." I gave her a hug.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She hugged me back. "You know, I'm glad you're the father. You have your bond with nalini, but you also have your bond with me now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I wasn't quite so happy about this, but I wouldn't let paula know that. "I'm excited about the prospect of being a father. So's nalini actually."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good! Hey, was she serious about an open invitation to share your bed? Do you think she meant sex as well? She seemed to suggest that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She's torn two ways. On the one hand she doesn't find females sexually attractive, on the other hand she does find you sexually attractive. And we all enjoyed what happened at the time. Obviously we'd go in for energy sharing and a mental link like last time. So while we don't want to make a habit of it, we're both open to it happening again, and we'll do our best to enjoy it when it does."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay." she grinned impishly. "So if I'm feeling horny, I'll come and join you two."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It was my turn to make the suggestive remark. "Don't you mean you'll join us and come?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The ploy seemed to have worked, for paula slept in her own bed, and stopped making suggestive remarks to me. Every time she did make one, I'd counter with the suggestion that she join us that night. She'd giggle, blush, threaten to do so, but never did.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i agreed that the ploy was part of it, but so was dreaming. When Paula was staying with us, we'd often meet up in dreaming. When she was off in shadow she was normally in a different time zone, and often running at a different rate, so meetings in dreaming were rare then.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero came and went, often taking paula with him. Their skills and energy levels were increasing, as was the bond between them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz's energy levels were inproving slowly, and she started making progress in dreaming.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I share dreaming most nights. We run our own agenda, we do different things on different nights. Sometimes we visit our own teachers, sometimes we visit particular shadows we may have passed through in order to garner some concrete information about them. Sometimes we meet with paula or prospero. Lately we'd been spending some time each night finding liz and showing her things to remember.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I were in dreaming. We were sitting at an outdoor cafe, one we frequently use for a rendezvous. Others know about it, they can meet us there if they feel inclined.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Dreaming can look identical with waking, except that improbable and impossible things can happen. The tables are green wrought iron, covered with white table cloths, and are laid out in the middle of the street. Some have striped umbrellas above them, the colors seem to be different each time we come. That's to be expected I suppose, because the people sitting at a table determine whether their table has an umbrella, and what color it should be. On one side of the is a footpath with assorted shops, including the cafe proper, a newsagency (although why anyone would want a newsagency in dreaming escapes me) and a number of old curio shops and art and craft shops. The street itself is bluestone cobbles. On the other side is parkland, with many ornamental gardens, and pitoresque pathways through it. Further off is a sandstone university complex, where courses are run on anything and everything. Spread out around the park is a thriving town that acts as a gathering point to those who would attend the university. The sky is white.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Some of the people here are dreamers, by which I mean still attached to living physical bodies. Others could be termed spirits because there is no physical body asleep somewhere. Some of these latter qualify as spirits of the dead, because once they did have physical bodies, but others never had a physical body. They are not angels, not demons, nor mischevious elementals. There is no word in english that describes them, I will simply label them spirit beings.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There is also another class of denizens here - that of dreaming construct. For example, the waiters at the cafe are mostly constructs, with no life force behind them. Think of them as computer simulations, except that we create these simulations. It is easy for us to tell the difference - living beings, including spirit beings, possess auras, while constructs do not. Auras are much easier to see in dreaming, but not everyone can.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I were sitting at one of the tables, minding coffees, watching the scenery, and talking. Our table started out with a green and white umbrella, but at some stage i had idly changed it to a large inflated beachball, colored red, yellow and blue. It simply hovered in the air above our table. The shops were to my right, the park to my left, while nalini sat across from me.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The people around were human looking, clothing ranging from all ages of history, plus some I didn't recognize, along with some nudity. There were a scattering of other creatures as well, but they were passing by, not sitting at the tables. One category was the guides, odd looking dark shapes like truncated telegraph poles, another category resembled blue and orange sea urchins about the size of a soccer ball. Both these types were spirit beings, and could teach dreamers much abut dreaming.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was wearing dark blue jeans and a light blue t-shirt. It resembled one that liz had given me - an aboriginal design entitled 'Ocean Dreaming'. Nalini wore black jeans and a green t-shirt with a tiger standing on a rock. In dreaming, our auras are a mixture of gold and blue. Other than that, we look much the same as in waking.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We had been finding liz every night for the past three weeks, bringing her here. Each night we would wait for her, but always we had to dispatch a guide to find her, or look for her ourselves.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As we waited, paula arrived. Her dreaming body is now slimmer than her physical one, with exercises and martial arts training she has put on some muscle. In dreaming she looks almost anorexic. Her pale face contrasted with her bright red lipstick, green eyes and black hair. She was wearing black t-shirt, black micro-mini skirt that left almost nothing to the imagination, and black lace up shoes. Her aura has a lot of red in it, along with some green, yellow and blue.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hi guys!" She hugged nalini, then kissed her on the mouth. Nalini hugged back, held the kiss briefly, then drew away.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula, I know we said anything goes in dreaming, but I think I'm not ready for tongue kissing with you yet. Can we work up to that slowly?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula in dreaming can be quite outrageous and flirty, but we've all agreed that conventional morals don't apply. Paula has used that to her advantage to have dreaming sex with me on a number of occasions.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She countered "But nalini, what would you do if i was to wake you up right now by climbing into your bed?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini looked at her with a wry smile. "We'd manage something." Then she grinned. "Get me excited first paula, and then see what happens. But we are waiting for liz at the moment, so i'd prefer you didn't wake us right now. I know better than to dare you to do something."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula grinned. "Dare me to and I will climb into your bed, and I'll make sure you don't get any sleep!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well you'd better make sure I enjoy it then. Now go kiss danny, he's probably feeling left out."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She giggled. "I'm sure that danny and i will make sure you enjoy yourself." She threw herself enthusiastically into my lap, wrapped her arms around me, and started tongue kissing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I suffered it good naturedly for a minute or so, kissing her back, then i pulled back and commented "Hey, don't over do it in nalini's presence, she'll feel left out."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She didn't wanna. Hey. I'm horney, can we go someplace else for a while?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, you know the rules. If i'm by myself, no problem, but when nalini's around, her wishes take precedence."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, she can join in."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula, you're always horney. All right, let's get this over with. Make room for me." Nalini is another person you don't dare to do something, she'll often do it just to prove a point.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Sex in dreaming can be a steamy, sweaty replica of physical sex, but it doesn't have to be. Sex is energy sharing, and in dreaming that can be performed with little more than a hug.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was sitting on my lap. She moved to sling one leg behind me, causing her skirt to ride up around her hips. Her panties were semi transparent. Nalini sat astride both out laps, grabbed paula's face with both her hands, and kissed her the way she kisses me. Paula's eyes widened with surprise.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Then she drew back, placed an arm around each of us and asked "Are we all ready?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It starts as a warm flow of energy that builds up into a whole body orgasm that lasts minutes, sometimes longer. This one lasted for a while.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The glow faded, nalini leaned against me. Paula leaned back and commented "Phew! That was great! Thanks guys!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini kissed me, then stood. "Now maybe you won't need to wake us up?" She sat down opposite me again.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, I probably won't need to wake you guys up. I'll wait until you're awake." Paula moved and sat between nalini and myself. She waved a hand in the air. "Hey! Waiter!" A waiter materialized beside her. "A cappachino and one of those russian pushka thingies." She turned to us. "So how's liz doing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She's improving. She is awake for longer in dreaming, but she still gets distracted easily, and can't remember things from one session to the next."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "We've been bringing her here every night for the past few weeks, we keep hoping that one day she'll turn up without having to be brought."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was suddenly serious. "Maybe if we all thought together, we could influence her?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It might work." Nalini stretched her hand across the table. I took one, paula the other, and paula and i held hands. Nalini and i linked minds, and then we waited while paula got herself into the right state. We felt tentative touches, then suddenly she opened up, and linked with us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When we link like this, it is quite easy to pick up the other person's emotions, feelings and thoughts. Nalini and i have no secrets between us, but we are learning to block ourselves off from others.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini: a deep warm well of love, a current of emotions running so deep we did not know their source. If ever faced with a choice between nalini and someone else, say paula, there would be no choice. Nalini i would die for, without thinking about it, without regrets; I have done so in the past. There is also an implicit trust, a mutual respect and love that goes back maybe thousands of lifetimes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula: light, flighty, impressions of a butterfly. But there is also a love from her to us, and from us to her. We have to indulge her a little, as well as take care of her. LIke a little sister, she is a younger soul than nalini and i. Like nalini, she was born in the year of the tiger, which makes her compatible with me.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We formed an impression of liz, part image, part feeling. Liz sitting at her computer, typing away. Often with one foot tucked onto the seat, not necessarily the most modest thing to do in a miniskirt. Liz stuffing her face with cake, with cream or icing smeared around her mouth like a little kid. She loves food. Liz at the beach resort, swimming around like a fish, or sunbathing topless in a bright orange bikini bottom on a blue towel. <<danny!>> from paula. <<I thought you liked girls?>> from me. <<Huh!>> <<Let's just concentrate on liz, however we visualize her. She had nice breasts anyway.>> from nalini.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz, suddenly turning to face us, wearing nothing but a pair of pink panties, a puzzled look on her face. I hold out my hand, and she is standing before us. "How did I get here? And where is here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hi Liz!" Nalini hugs her, then I hug her, then paula. We break out link.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz smiled at us and looked around. "I've been here before, haven't I?" She sat down at the vacant seat between nalini and me, opposite paula. A waiter materialized nearby. "Black coffee, hot skim milk on the side, and a mud cake thanks."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The twirling beach ball hovering above our heads caught her eyes, and she stared at it open mouthed. Nalini clicked her fingers to attract attention. "Liz, do you know where you are?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz grinned and looked around at us. "I've been here before, haven't I?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She's stoned!" paula exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, that's what most dreamers are like. They lack the energy to keep their attention focused for more than a few seconds." i explained.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled at paula "You used to be like that you know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Never! Can we do anything to help her?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The coffee had arrived, and liz was staring at reflections in the coffee. "Yes, we can give her an energy boost. Do you want to help?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is that like energy sharing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, it's one way only. You don't get to have an orgasm."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula clicked her fingers and Tsked. Nalini reached out, took liz's right hand, then paula's left. I took liz's left hand, and paula's right. I reached for the source of energy, felt it flow into me through my head, down to my heart, and out my right hand into liz. There was a small flow from paula as well. Liz continued to stare into her coffee cup, but after a few minutes she started, and stared around as if newly awakened.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sorry guys, I must have drifted off for a moment. All this walking makes me tired. What were you saying?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula asked "Do you know where you are liz?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not really. This is some shadow that danny and nalini have taken me to before." She added a small amount of milk to her coffee, drank some. "Mmm, coffee's good. Isn't that why we come here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You could say that." Nalini looked secretly amused, waiting for liz to realise she was dreaming.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We also want you to remember this place so you can find it again in dreaming. Liz, try to remember this, picture it in your mind."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How long will that last?" paula asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe ten or fifteen minutes, then it fades again." nalini replied. "We can give her more boosts, but it's frustrating. She needs to get over some threshold limit, and we don't know what to do."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One of the guides had been hovering near the tables. It appeared to be a black cylinder about eight or nine inches in diameter (say eighteen to twenty centimeters) and about six feet (or two meters) high. It was completely featureless. It seemed to want to attract the attention of a dreamer, because it would hover in its usual shape, then suddenly change into a brightly colored buterfly with a wingspan about as big as my outstretched arms. It would flap several times, then change back to the truncated telegraph pole again.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What about asking the guide?" I indicated with my head.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini swivelled to look. "If anyone knows, they would. Let's attract it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How?" liz asked. She was still part of our conversation.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Simple, they want our attention. When a dreamer focusses on them, they feel it. Watch." We both stared intently at the guide, which suddenly shifted into a replica of the floating beach ball, and came to hover beside nalini.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We'd like your help." we both said.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Certainly. How may I assist you?" Its voice was english, popping into our heads, but not in the same way as nalini's telepathy. It was if it was directly stimulating something that transmitted hearing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i explained the problem we were having with liz. Liz was still alert enough to follow our explanation, and nod. "I can't believe this is dreaming though. It feels just like being awake."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The guide replied "Normally I would not do anything for her, she is not advanced enough. However, you are, and you will help her to develop her potential to a point where she is advanced enough. What you need to do is to open her energy channel wider. There is very little flowing at present. Normally it takes a dreamer years of practice to open their channel sufficiently."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz was looking at the guide intently, "You're a talking beachball! Aren't you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The guide flicked back to the telegraph pole. "You will need some of my energy to do this. But you must not prevent me from instructing her if she wishes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We will not prevent you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked puzzled. "Why would you want to help? Why would it instruct me?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The guide continued to ignore her. "Nalini, danny, you must each place your left hand upon me. Nalini, place your other hand here..." a ghostly hand appeared at the back of liz's head ".. Danny, place your other hand here..." another ghostly hand appeared between her shoulder blades. "Paula, please come here. Put your left hand on me, and your right hand here..." a third ghostly hand appeared at the base of liz's spine. We did as directed. "You will feel a strong current of energy. Do not be alarmed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The guide was right. The current felt like an electric shock. Paula cried out in surprise. Liz started moaning, almost like she was orgasming, because her body spasmed, her pelvis thrusting forward while her shoulders hunched with each moan. I could see a line of yellow fire running through her aura.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The current shut off. Liz slumped forward, breathing harshly. Paula massaged her arms. "Boy, that was painful."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The guide remarked "All of you should have more energy now." It was right, colors seemed brighter, details sharper. "The girl will remember this, and will remember her future dreams. In a little while she will be suitable for me to instruct."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz sat up again, turned to look at the three of us standing behind her. Her heavy brows made her look angry. "What are you guys doing to me? And what's that thing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Child, I am a guide. I can teach you many things about dreaming, and I can offer you the chance of immortality, if you prove suitable."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What's the catch?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There is no catch. Not everyone is suitable, and not everyone wants what we offer. As you progress a little more, I will begin to teach you things about dreaming."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's all right liz." nalini commented. "They have their own agenda. You must think very carefully about any offer of immortality they may give. But for now you can accept what they teach you, they are experts in this realm."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I turned to the guide. "Thank you for your help. I am sure you will follow us all with interest."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh you may be sure of that. I will return frequently. Farewell." It drifted away toward some other tables.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "Liz, do you know where you are?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She nodded. "I know I'm dreaming, although I'm damned if I know how I know that. I know I've been here before, I can remember dreaming it. Will I remember this when I wake up?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There's a good chance you will liz. The guide has opened your energy channels a bit, so you should find it much easier now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula interupted "Liz, does it bother you that you're sitting there in just your panties?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shrugged. "It's just tits. Nothing you two haven't got. And danny's seen them before." She sat up, thrust her breasts out, grinned. "If he wants to admire them, I don't mind. He talks to me, not my tits."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm happy to admire them if you're happy showing them. Nalini doesn't mind me looking."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "If you've got it flaunt it hey? Paula, have you forgotten you used to turn up stark naked?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Um... I had actually. that was a long time ago. I guess hers are bigger than mine."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And you can change that here if you want to." I commented. "Liz, enjoy your coffee before it gets cold. I'm sure you have lots of questions to ask us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, did you guys order for me? This is just how I like it!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, you ordered yourself, but you went back to sleep. Your energy levels weren't high enough to maintain your awareness."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hmm... cake's good too!" Liz spoke with her mouth full.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula meanwhile looked as if she were going crosseyed. Suddenly her shape flickered, rippled and then she was half leopard, half female. She appeared to be naked, but covered with short fur patterned with leopard spots. The fur faded out about the level of her breasts, though the spots continue to her neck. Her breasts were much bigger, probably D cup or even larger.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very good paula!" nalini commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She grinned saucily "Now my tits are bigger, you can admire mine!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, but can you stop trying to be the center of attention? We're here for liz."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "You'd better stare at them danny, make her happy." I did so for a minute or so. Liz was sufficiently surprised that she had stopped eating, and was sitting with her mouth half open. Nalini added "Paula, would you like us all to feel them as well? Would that make you happier? Would you like me to grow a penis and spread you here on the table?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula realized she was overstepping the mark. "Oh... I just didn't want liz to feel she was the odd one out.... sorry."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right. We love you very much paula, but we're here to explain things to liz. Can you just behave a little less outrageously?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula nodded, switched back to her normal self. "I might have a cake. Waiter!" she waved a hand in the air.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, you obviously have questions. Ask away. We'll try to answer them all."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I dunno where to start. How did paula do that? Where are we? How did I get here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "And is paula always like this? No, she just needs a good screw. The sooner prospero gets back the better, it'll stop her eyeing off danny."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe it's full moon?..." paula started. She caught the look on nalini's face. "Sorry. I'll behave."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good." I turned to liz. "Perhaps you should tell us what you think first, so we know where to start?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, I'm dreaming, aren't I? And so are all of you." We nodded. "So where are we? How come it looks so real? How can we actually meet up?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini started "All right, all of us have 3 separate bodies, our physical, our dreaming body, and a spirit body. They are something like different octaves of the same note, if that makes sense. So you can have a C note that's low, go up an octave and have another C note that is the same, but higher."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz nodded thoughtfully. "I did some music at school."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good. They each have their own awareness, and are capable of acting independently of each other. Most of the time we aren't even aware of this..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz was shaking her head.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I explained "When you are awake, that is your waking awareness, or your physical body's awareness. That is what we normally think of as ourselves. You clear so far?" Liz nodded. "Good. Now consider what happens when we go to sleep. What happens to our waking or physical awareness?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Um... I'd guess it goes to sleep. But what about when we dream?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, you're on to it. Our attention is usually with our physical awareness, especially when we are awake. But when the physical body goes to sleep, the physical awareness is also asleep, or at some very low level. Our attention turns to our dreaming body, and its awareness. So right now, your physical is asleep, your attention is on your dreaming body. You can't remember how you were a little while ago, but paula commented you were acting as if you were stoned. You did things like stare at the reflections in your coffee. You kept saying the same thing over and over, because you'd forgotten you'd said it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Really?!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Most people are the same when they dream. Their dreaming awareness lacks energy, has never been trained the way our physical awareness has been, it's not very useful to most people. Now, we asked a guide to help us, and it boosted your energy, and opened your channel wider. You need to practice in dreaming to keep that channel open."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "At the moment, your attention is focussed on your dreaming awareness. Because of your energy levels, a lot of your waking awareness has transferred itself to your dreaming body. When your energy fades, as it will later tonight, you will revert back to what you were. You should be able to remember things in waking though, because your waking awareness is present now. This is what makes the difference between dreams you can't remember or vaguely remember, and dreams you can rmemeber quite vividly. Keep doing your energy exercises, and you will improve. You should be able to find your own way here tomorrow night."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Where is here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's the astral isn't it?" paula put in.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Probably." i replied. "There aren't any adequate words in english. The Astral Realm is one term, the World of Dreaming is another, and even the Spirit World. You might be more familiar with the last, this is where shamans come in trances, this is where most of the spirit beings live."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz was looking more alert now, nodding.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "This world is like our dreaming body, similar to the physical world, but a higher octave. Parts of it correspond with the physical world, so you can be floating around your bedroom and see yourself asleep in bed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's happened to me a couple of times. Scared the hell out of me the first time, I thought I was dying. Then my grandma told me i was in the spirit world, but where it overlaps our own, and if i was good the spirits would teach me things."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled, nodded. "And she was right. Other parts of the spirit world don't overlap, some like here mimic the physical world, and other parts don't correspond at all. The guides, which we'll get to soon, are spirit beings, and they will be able to teach you things about this world. Now, there are two things you should notice about us. First, do you see swirls of color surrounding each of us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Lis shook her head. "Nope, you look about the same as normal."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right, that will come later. I was going to point out that we all have auras, that's what they're called. Everyone else around here has an aura, including the guides. But the waiters do not. They are not real in the sense that you and i are real, they are a dreaming construct. For now you'll have to accept this. One day you will start to see auras and you will know what I mean.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The spirit world, or dreaming world, can be changed by our thoughts. That was how paula changed into a leopard woman and back again. The furniture, the surroundings, even the coffee and cake are constructs." She concentrated for a moment, and several small brightly colored butterflies appeared and fluttered around paula. "I just created those butterflies."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Kewl! I guess I'l learn how to do that in due course?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes. Now the other thing you should notice is that each of us has a fiber or line coming out of the backs of our heads." I turned my head and she pointed out my line to liz. It's a ghostly line, something like smoke, and not always easy to see. "That is a line that connects our dreaming bodies to our physical ones. Anyone you see with such a line is a dreamer, regardless of their shape. Anyone who doesn't have such a line does not have a physical body. Some will be people who have died, while others are like the guides - they are spirit beings, they never had a physical body."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Something else about your dreaming awareness - sometimes it does intrude into waking. You know sometimes you have a sense of deja vu, or sometimes a premonition? That's your dreaming awareness intruding into waking. Meditation and some of the energy exercises help to align both awarenesses, so they cross over and support each other. This is to be encouraged. In a sense, the three awarenesses are something like the three legs of a stool. Most people spend their lives with their stool balanced on only one leg. We are learning to be different."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz smiled. "I can relate to explanations like that. I was going to ask what or where is the attention you mentioned before, the one that focusses on awareness? But I guess you'll tell me its in the seat of the stool"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I grinned. "Very good! I'm not sure what the seat represents, something behind the three bodies, but none of us are advanced enough to know what that is. Nalini and I loosely refer to it as the soul, but we could be quite wrong. All I can say is that development is a process that takes lifetimes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Phew!" Liz stared off into the distance for a while. "So some of these are dead people, and some are spirit beings. How can you tell the difference?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "That isn't always easy. The guides are those telegraph pole like things, those blue and orange puff balls are another type, they're both spirit beings. If you see a human shape, chances are it's either a dreamer or a dead person. Spirit beings don't often masquerade as humans. When you can see the aura, you'll recognize human auras even when the er... being in question is shaped differently. If it's not a human aura, then you have to use other knowledge. This region is where humans come, so if it isn't human, it probably is a spirit being. If you're somewhere else, you may have to ask. If there is a guide with you, then ask the guide. They seem to know everything."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz was looking thoughtful, puzzled. I admonished "Don't worry liz, find your way here tomorrow night, and we'll run over this again. We'll also talk to you tomorrow about what you can remember, and run through this in waking. Eventually the knowledge will stick."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz nodded. "I think I'll need you to go over it several times. But that's cool."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was almost bouncing up and down in her seat. "Hey liz, aren't you going to ask the obvious question?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh... what's that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If there are dead people here, what happens when we die?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz nodded again. "Yeah, what does happen?" She looked surprised "Oh, gotta go pee!" and vanished. She had obviously woken up.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey guys, now she's gone, can we go look at that shadow we passed through a week ago?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We did continue the discussion the next morning, over coffee. Paula awake was much more demure. Imladril told us it was just a phase she was going through, that her dreaming personality was less mature, but would eventually mesh with her waking one.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz did remember some of the dream, but could not recall it as being lucid, just vivid. We ran through our explanations again. This time she asked more questions "Okay, if there are dead people in the spirit world, what happens to us when we die? Doesn't sound like what the priest told us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini took a breath. "Well, most of them make their way to the human region. Not necessarily the area we were in, but somewhere around there. They hang around there for a while, eventually their dreaming body also dies, or is sloughed like a snake skin, leaving only the spirit body. Then it sets about creating a new dreaming body, and a new physical body. It becomes a new baby somewhere. That process can take anywhere from a couple of years to centuries or longer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So we're not judged or anything, or sent to hell?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No. We judge ourselves, because we can see things more clearly, and remember past lives. The process of rebirth happens because the spirit body desires to be reborn. How it picks where to be born tends to depend on its own desires when it wants to be reborn. It might want to be with loved ones, or it might like a particular region, or life style, or anything."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Basically there is no punishment, no justice, just the cycle of birth and death and rebirth. Human desires and expectations determine what happens. Even when we die, if we expect to sit on a white cloud with a harp, then we'll construct such a place, and sit there until we grow bored, or something happens to make us realise that it's all a fake. People construct whole cities to fit their expectations. That place where we were last night is such a construct. Thousands of people live there - it's a university town, there are classes on anything and everything. You can study art, literature, dreaming, even nuclear physics, and wake up with a new idea. That place is more difficult to change because the collective wills of thousands of people keep it as it is. So it resembles the physical world much more."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula added "I've read that people report swimming through a tunnel of light, and being greeted by dead relatives."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I smiled "I may have died many times, but I don't recall what happened after I died. I have been told that someone is there to greet a newly deceased person. I mean, there are spirit beings and dreaming bodies and dead souls probably floating through this room right now, except we can't see them. Our dreaming bodies can, and when we get them in sync with our physical bodies we'll see them in waking. Chances are someone is watching us when we die."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "But if we die of natural causes, most of the time we know some time before we die. So we have time to arrange for relatives to be with us. Liz, you can find your dead relatives in dreaming. You can even find your living ones, but unless they have enough energy, they won't remember meeting you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked at us, her brown eyes wide. "No justice, no punishment. Does god exist, or is it all just some cruel joke?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini said quietly "God exists. We are all just dreams within his mind. But there is no punishment in the usual Judeo-Christian sense. We go on with our lives, part of us is reborn, and learns from our experiences. Most of us are on a slow path toward eventual re-union with god. Some are on a downward spiral. Demons exist also. By that I mean spirit beings that hate us and try to thwart our endeavours and to hurt us. Some spirit beings are friendly, most are not. The ones you encounter in human regions are friendly. Venture out of there at your own peril."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "In fact, don't venture out of the human regions unless you have a spirit guide with you." I added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What are they? Are they like angels?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not really, though some of their actions may be angelic. Often they will warn us of things about to happen. If we can hear them, often they talk incessantly to us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They run their own agenda." I added. "They will nurture dreaming awareness, teach us anything about dreaming, and show us through the non human realms. They don't lie, but that doesn't mean they always tell the whole truth. At some stage they will offer you immortality. Find out everything you can, and think very carefully before accepting that offer. Nalini and I have rejected that offer, paula has not yet had the offer made."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "They do offer a kind of immortality, where your dreaming body is preserved for eons somewhere in their own realm. In a sense, you become a kind of spirit being yourself. That is a path danny and i have chosen not to walk. We can't tell you if that decision is right or wrong, only that we made a decision we can live with. At some stage both of you will face that same decision."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But apart from all that," i added "they can be quite useful. They can find shadows for you, guide you there in dreaming, and help you find out about a place before you visit it. They are friendly, and they do tell the truth." I activated my sorcerous sight. "In fact, there is one floating over by the window right now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's scary!" Liz complained.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Don't let them scare you liz, they will not harm you, they will always seek to protect you. They are something like angels."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                     ###}}