{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Cambria-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi284\ri-597\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32\b1\i0 Chapter}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  2}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It will be the wedding of the decade! The celebrations will last all week! All of you have to come!" Prospero spread butter on his muffin, followed by some marmelade. He, durathror and ra'anor had arrived earlier that morning, early enough that the rest of us were still in the process of getting showered and dressed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nalini and I will be there. Can we bring liz as well?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course! She is our friend, even though my lord amrik does not know her, all the lords are bringing all their relatives, and the king certainly does not know all of them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero, you will have to advise us on a suitable gift for the royal couple." Nalini remarked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I will try, but I am not co-ordinating wedding gifts. I am sure we can find something suitable in this shadow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror grinned "We could go shopping through several diferent shadows like last time. But we might avoid the gym equipment this time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What do the nobles think of amrik marrying enyil?" nalini asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero chuckled. "They all have their noses out of joint, because they all hoped the king would marry one of their daughters. But on the other hand, they are happier than if he had married some other noble's daughter, because that way none of their rivals gets to be the king's father in law!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz arrived soon after, and prospero explained again that his king amrik was getting married to the lady enyil of the viharani, and that there would be a week long celebration. "And you are invited too liz."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh. Er... thanks prospero. Who else is going?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I smiled "We're all going liz. You want a paid holiday with us? Visiting Prospero's home shadow, a sort of renaisance paradise, and spending time as a noble lady?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz chuckled "Never thought of myself as a noble lady. But thanks danny, nalini. I can't afford to take a holiday right now, but I'd love to come. How many hours would you pay me for?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We have to regularize your working hours, especially seeing as paula is hardly ever here to do her work. We expect to be gone for 2 weeks, so let's say ten days pay? More if we're away longer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Wow! Thanks, that's great."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "We'll have to hire a couple of temps for while we're away, so you two girls had better make sure they know how to do your work."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They nodded. Liz asked "Hey, what do I tell my parents?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Tell them we're going interstate on business, you're invited, that we'll do a little sight seeing while we're away."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added with a smile "Just be careful what pictures you show them!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We only had a couple of weeks, and we needed to hire a couple of temps who not only could do the work, but also could be trusted inside our house while we were away. That meant we needed to interview them and check their auras as well as their personalities.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The house is designed with a long corridor running from the front door past the living room and study, past the downstairs bathroom and toilet, past the staircase and the dining room entrance into the family room at the back. There is a set of ornamental bi-fold doors at the end of the corridor.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We decided we should install a more solid door in the corridor before the staircase and dining room entrance, so the temps would have access to the toilet and bathroom, but not the rest of the house. We could also put a lock on the living room door, thus locking the large office, but that would leave the two sharing the study. We compromised, putting a lock on the diningroom door at the other end of the office, and moving valuable things like the laptops and some ornaments out of the office. It was a shame about the door in the corridor though.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We ended up hiring Ami Tan, an Australian born chinese student doing accounting; who is still with us, running the accounting and billing side of our business. She was studying part time, and wanted part time work to help her pay her way through university. Our work suited her because she could fit it around her university hours. Ami is about five seven, reasonably slim, with black hair and eyes, and yellow skin of the more southern chinese.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We also hired maria, a petite Italian girl with dark hair and flashing eyes to do the word processing. We agreed on minimum hours, including allowing her to take a day off if there was no work, provided that ami could look after the office in her absence. The work had to be done, but it didn't matter if they did it at 6 am or 6 pm, as long as customer deadlines were met. Between them they had to ensure that the office had someone to answer the phone during normal business hours. They also had to water the plants in our absence.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Coming up to the day, there was more organizing to do. Nalini, paula and i went shopping for a suitable wedding present. Part of the problem was simply that anything remotely useful would have already been given by the nobles; we didn't want to present something gaudy and useless. What can you give someone who is the king of a kingdom that is probably almost as large as Europe, and is the trading center for half the world?}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We'd already presented Amrik with a full complement of gym equipment, high tech armor from some distance futuristic shadow, and the finest samurai sword we could buy. Weapons aren't suitable wedding presents, and even if they were, we had no intention of presenting modern firearms, missiles or the like. Prospero had presented amrik with one hundred rifles and ammunition; he'd looked at them, tried one out, thought about things for a while, then told prospero to take them back. He regarded them as too dangerous. Prospero had been crestfallen, but he'd brought them back to our house, and now we had a small arsenal hidden away under lock and key. Amrik wasn't being stupid, he had realised that other nations could copy the rifles once they knew about them, and could easily destroy the current military superiority that Aquilonia enjoyed, and with it the pax aquilonia. Guns would undoubtedly be invented there, but he preferred to wait until they were. All these considerations did not stop him from keeping a fortyfive semi automatic pistol which prospero also to him; he wore that where ever he went, along with the sword we had given him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In the end, nalini and i hired a van, and accompanied by durathror and ra'anor, loaded up about a ton of choice chocolates, a ton of glace fruits and other confectionary, two palette loads of some of the best wine we could find, all of which would be consumed at the feast. We also bought an ornate bone china oriental style coffee set and similar tea set, along with a selection of the finest coffee beans and finest teas from several shadows.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With four of us the cabin was cramped, but I drove while durathror shifted us. Driving necessitated staying on something resembling a road, but that brought its own risks, as sometimes the traffic would be travelling on the opposite side of the road from which we occupied, and we would find ourselves driving toward oncoming traffic.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 For three hours we followed a road that was sometimes black top, sometimes gravel and often rutted cart track, before we found ourselves in tarantia, at the city gates. Our van caused much consternation, but we drove through the gates, up the hill and into the palace courtyard.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik himself stepped out to greet us - the appearance of sorcerers driving a horseless carriage was newsworthy enough to reach the king's ears. Amrik is a tall man, perhaps six three or six four, with a body builder's muscles, shoulder length dark hair, ice blue eyes, clean shaven. He looked about thirty. He was dressed in simple military uniform, almost indistinguishable from prospero's - dark brown leather boots, red trousers, sky blue jacket buttoned almost to the neck. The high prussian style collar bore a stylized bull's head on each side, worked in gold, whereas Prospero's collar bore two gold suns. He gave me and durathror gruff hugs, bent to kiss ra'anor on the cheek, and gave nalini a bearhug and kiss.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Enyil was with him. She is also tall, perhaps five seven or five eight, with the honey skin, blond hair and green eyes typical of the viharani. She wore green plaid slacks, white lace up bodice and dark green and red plaid jacket. She kissed me and nalini on the cheek, but greeted durathror and ra'anor more warmly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We exchanged pleasantries, congratulated them on their forthcoming marriage. Amrik grinned, looked fondly over to where she was talking with durathror and ra'anor "Aye, she is a good woman. A mind of her own, skilled in battle, the sort of wife a warrior needs. Not like all these high bred noble women, who faint at the site of blood or a coarse remark from one of the soldiers. Marrying her has set the cat among the pidgeons, i can tell you. All the nobles opposed it, until prospero pointed out that this meant that none of their rivals would be my father in law! Each has now realized they are better off with this outcome."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Enyil gestured, and a servant appeared. She spoke briefly to him, he barked some orders into the door behind, and kitchen hands appeared to unload the goods we had brought.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik personally conducted us inside to a small audience chamber looking over an ornamental garden, and views to the river. Refreshments were served - pastries, fruit, two carafs of wine and even a pot of strong, sweet black coffee.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik turned to us "And when are you two getting married? Enyil and I will be coming to your wedding."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We have yet to set the date, or rather the dates. The fact that danny's parents live in one shadow, while mine in another complicates matters, especially since none of them know about shadows, or that we can travel between them. But when will you visit us? You must take time off from your duties and pay us a visit."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I intend to visit numerous friends ofter the wedding. There are people I must see in several shadows, so enyil and i will visit you in perhaps three or four weeks. I tell you, who would want to be a king?! I try to be a good king, but everyone wants your attention, and you must hear their urgent plea and do something to advantage them over their fellows.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But things are changing slowly. I am in the process of setting up a permanent public service, which will report to my advisers. I have convened a parliament of the nobles, and I am in the process of setting up a parliament of commoners. The nobles support their own parliament, because they realise that together they can have a say in how i govern, and the laws that are passed. They are vehemently opposed to the parliament of commoners, because they know this will give the common people a say. Fahgh! It is all about protecting their own priviledges at the expense of everyone else's. I come from common stock, I know what it is like to have nobles who treat us like dirt. And now a commoner is their king, and is curbing their priviledges. Hah! I have little sympathy for their grievances, and the army supports me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Enyil joined in our conversation. "What is making them accept the changes is that the king's power will also have limits set upon it. Presently the king is the law, which works when there is a good king, but fails badly when the king is weak or foolish. We strive to impose limits on both the king and the barons"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik added "The excesses of the old king brought on the revolution. I did not choose to be king, but as the warlord, I commanded the armies. Once I imprisoned the king, I found myself in charge. The nobles were fighting amongst themselves, each wanting to be king himself, and lesser nobles scheming to put the degenerate slime back on the throne. Another faction backed prospero, since as the king's cousin, once the king and his heirs were out of the way, prospero was next in line. I would have supported prospero, he is my friend, i trust him, but he refused, and insisted that he crown me!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor interrupted "You pardon your highness, but this is a story I have not heard. Could I trouble you to elaborate?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik grunted "My lady, in private, with my friends, I would prefer to be called just Amrik. 'Tis a somewhat long story, and no doubt prospero could tell it better, he has a silver tongue. If you will accept me telling it plainly, then I will tell it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i already knew this from prospero, but we thought it would be interesting to hear the king's own version.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor replied with a smile "Amrik, use no titles to me in private either. I am Ra'anor." She pronounced her name with a glottal stop, like the apostrophe in li'l, approximately rah-ahnor, only with shorter vowels.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik repeated her name correctly, whereas most people seem to mispronounce it as Rahnor. "Very well ra'anor, I am a commoner at heart, I speak with a commoner's words, and with a commoner's distrust of nobles. It seems to me that behind every noble house was an ancestor who was a brigand. The old king was nothing better, and in many ways worse. No one was safe from his perverted lusts, neither young nor old, neither male nor female, not even the beasts in the field. They say he bathed in the blood of virgins to preserve his youth, and used their skins for his parchment. Certainly we found human skins in his quarters, and knives with handles made from human bones. But I get ahead of myself."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He took a long swallow of wine, then started. "I was born in the northern reaches of aquilonia, one of the mountainous regions that borders the land of the picts. They are a tribal people, quite barbarous, but in my father's day their king of kings united them into a nation called Brythunia. They have raided the border regions for centuries, but when they became a nation, they sought to create an empire. Our village changed from Aquilonian to Brythunian at least three times while I was a child.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I was about eight or nine when raiders came to my village, they killed every male, they killed most of the children, and all the older women. They young pretty girls they carried off. I was hiding in my father\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s workshop, and I saw them killed. They killed my father, they killed my mother, they killed my brothers, and they raped my sisters and carried them off. I was hiding in the rafters watching. But then they set fire to the place, and I had to flee. I was lucky to escape. I fled into the forest, and I was all alone.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "For years the one thing that kept me going was the thought of finding those responsible and wreaking revenge. But by the time I became king I wanted to stamp out such goings on, and make the world safe for everyone. I\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92ve caught quite a few brigands in my time, and left their heads on poles as warnings to others.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I knew a bit about hunting, enough to keep myself alive for a few weeks until I came upon a band of wandering gypsies. They took me in and cared for me until I was about thirteen or fourteen. We traveled many places in that time. Then I left them to join a band of mercenaries, and headed further east for a few years. I saw a lot of fighting - that\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s what people hire mercenaries for, and I became skilled with many weapons. But one day I decided to go back to Aquilonia. I believe that our god Mithras put that idea into my head, because much has flowed from that decision.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I joined a different band of mercenaries and we hired ourselves to the king of Aquilonia. Our company was put under the command of duke Leto, and I came to know his sons Baolo and Prospero. Baolo and I were about the same age, and duke Leto believed his sons should earn their position in his army. Baolo apparently told his father about me, and the next thing I know, the old duke offered me a commission in his army. He even put his second son Prospero under my command to learn his trade as a soldier. Several years passed, during which time Baolo, Prospero and myself worked our way up the ranks.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then one day I realized the king, the degenerate Sarono, decided that my village was loyal to Brythunia, and he order it destroyed, along with several others in the area. I lost my father, my mother, my sister, my cousins. The king's own guard did the deed, but Baron Belgardo gave them shelter, and had some of his men show the king's guard where the villages were. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93That night I sought out Numido myself and slew him}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That led to my arrest and imprisonment. The tyrant himself came to supervise my torment at the hand of his torturers. He even told me he killed most of the young girls he captured after he had used them, and assured me my sisters would have died painfully. I cursed him then, and told him I would send him to hell.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That annoyed him, and he promised me I would live as long as his torturers\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92 skills would allow, and that every day would be absolute agony.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They tortured me for two days straight, but then Prospero and some of the men broke into the palace dungeons, slew the torturers and set me free. They spirited me out of the palace through the sewers, and we made our way to the hills. Prospero told me that Baolo had also been arrested, but the tyrant had killed him already. Duke Leto had taken his family into the hills along with his men and their families, and was planning a coup.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We became outlaws, and our numbers were swelled by survivors from the villages. For two years we moved around, harrying the king's soldiers, catching his tax collectors and emptying their purses, rescuing the columns of young boys and girls sent to the capital to feed his unnatural lusts.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then the Brythunians invaded again. I considered an aliance with them, but I am aquilonian, not some savage Brythunian who dresses his hair in blood, and never bathes. So we harried them as well.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I had a long talk with both prospero and duke leto. The old duke  said to me "Amrik, almost everyone must know the king is not fit to rule. My eldest son was cut down for criticising the king when he was in his cups. When the brythunians have been thrown back, I will take my army and march on Tarantia to depose the king."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik took another drink, poured himself another. His face was no longer bleak. "That summer we fought a long and hard campaign against the brythunians, and routed them. The king sent more of his best troops, fanatically loyal. The duke stationed them in border guard posts where their energies could be used to protect aquilonia, and not support the king. We were in the region near where my village had been, baron belgardo joined us with his army, and agreed to station troops in a number of border posts that the duke set up. He also offered the duke provisions, and his hospitality."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik looked around at us. "Although I distrusted belgardo, the duke thought the offer was genuine. He also wished a chance to sound out the baron on his feelings toward the king. So he and prospero, along with the other commanders, accepted belgardo's invitation to dine with him. I refused, and stayed with the main camp. The duke arranged with me that he would either return before midnight, or send a messanger if he was staying the night. About the tenth hour a messanger did arrive saying the duke would stay the night, but he did not use the code words the duke had arranged. I knew then that the duke had been captured, possibly killed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I hand picked a group of one hundred volunteers, the best of the men, and we crept into the castle through the drains. We discovered the duke and the others in the castle dungeons, and after a fight, freed them. Prospero told me later that belgardo had been prepared, and after dinner had accused the duke of treason. The duke was badly injured in the fight that followed. I arranged for a small group to escort the duke from the castle, and a second group with instructions to bring the rest of the army. The rest of us went on a rampage. Prospero and i and some of the men fought our way to belgardo's apartments, prospero killed the baron. I cut off his head, wrapped it in the baron's cloak.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "When we got out of the keep, we found the entire castle in uproar, with our men fighting belgardo's men and some of the king's soldiers. Prospero called out at the top of his lungs that the baron had been executed for treason, and to stop fighting. I would have been happy to sack the castle, but I saw the wisdom of prospero's deed. I held up the baron's severed head, and also yelled out, and eventually the fighting stopped. The old duke then rode in amongst the carnage, sitting tall and straight despite his wounds, and told everyone "I promised my men that once we had secured our rear from the brythunians, we would march on tarantia, and depose the king. This night our rear is secure. Those who would join me, stand forth, be you king's guard or balgardo's man." He had all those who volunteered swear an oath to himself and prospero, then he had all those who did not swear rounded up."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik was by now staring into the distance, not seeing any of us. "I leaned much about leadership that night. The king's guard who refused to join us were summarily executed. The local lads, many of whom had wives and children in surrounding villages, were given the choice of death, or border guard. They all chose border guards. The local lads might be loyal to the throne, but they would support whoever wore the crown. Then the duke started coughing blood, and we carried him inside. He was still issuing instructions, about garrisoning the castle with local boys who had families to support, about who should be commander of the keep, about how to organize the troops for the march to tarantia.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Toward dawn, he called all the commanders together. He said "I promised I would lead you to tarantia. I fear however that the gods may prevent me. I have given thought to who should command the army, I believe amrik is the best of my commanders, I would appoint him war leader." The other commanders all agreed, I don't think any of them wanted the responsibility. He made us all swear fealty to prospero and to see him installed on the throne. After his father the duke, who was cousin to the king, he was the next in line to the throne. Then the duke had us carry him outside so he could see the sun rise. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93The duke did not die that night, though his wounds had weakened him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero sent messages to the neighbouring barons, none joined us, but only one, baron heraklo, joined the king. We fought several battles over the space of five weeks, during which we routed the both armies, and killed baron heraklo, and came to the gates of tarantia. We laid seige to the city, but prospero and i were loath to conduct an actual seige, which would kill many civilians. We did not lose many soldiers during the fighting either, because of the way we planned our campaigns.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Eventually we surrounded Tarantia. The tyrant had hired all the mercenaries he could find, and we found ourselves facing an army of similar size to our own. We were also facing the feared general Trocero, who had been a general for the tyrant\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s grandfather. In his heyday it was said that armies would flee rather than face him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But Trocero was a wily old fox. He sent the mercenary general Vizard into the field with all his mercenaries, while Trocero and his Aquilonian soldiers remained in the city. I think Trocero claimed he was too old to take the field - he must have been nearly eighty even then - and his Aquilonians might desert or surrender rather than fight. So we faced Vizard and his thousands of mercenaries.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That was a master stroke by Trocero - mercenaries are tough fighters, but they fight for gold, and when the going gets tough, they go rather than fight. Our troops were spared the worry they might face their relatives, or kill a fellow Aquilonian. But even so, that battle was a close fought thing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Vizard was a seasoned fighter, and sent out his best men to assassinate the duke, who was with his standard on a low hill. I will forever regret that I was not on the hill at that time, for we heard the cries, saw the fighting, and as I spurred my horse up the hill I saw duke Leto fall, and his standard with him. Our troops began to falter, as troops will when their leader falls.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Eventually we surrounded Tarantia. The tyrant had hired all the mercenaries he could find, and we found ourselves facing an army of similar size to our own. We were also facing the feared general Trocero, who had been a general for the tyrant\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s grandfather. In his heyday it was said that armies would flee rather than face him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But Trocero was a wily old fox. He sent the mercenary general Vizard into the field with all his mercenaries, while Trocero and his Aquilonian soldiers remained in the city. I think Trocero claimed he was too old to take the field - he must have been nearly eighty even then - and his Aquilonians might desert or surrender rather than fight. So we faced Vizard and his thousands of mercenaries.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That was a master stroke by Trocero - mercenaries are tough fighters, but they fight for gold, and when the going gets tough, they go rather than fight. Our troops were spared the worry they might face their relatives, or kill a fellow Aquilonian. But even so, that battle was a close fought thing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Vizard was a seasoned fighter, and sent out his best men to assassinate the duke, who was with his standard on a low hill. I will forever regret that I was not on the hill at that time, for we heard the cries, saw the fighting, and as I spurred my horse up the hill I saw duke Leto fall, and his standard with him. Our troops began to falter, as troops will when their leader falls.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero was with me as my second in charge. Our troops slew the assassins, and prospero raised the duke\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8217\'92s standard. We propped the duke on some saddles, and put his sword in his hand. He wasn\u8217\'92t dead, but he was bleeding badly. The duke struggled to his feet, raised his sword and said clearly. "Mithras will grant us success. My spirit will follow you into tarantia." Then he sank to his knees, rammed the point of his sword into the earth, and died, fingers clasped around the hilt.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "None of us was relishing the prospect of hand to hand fighting through the city, but instead general Trocero himself rode out to greet us. He offered us the keys to the city, and told us that the remaining mercenaries were barricaded in the palace along with the tyrant, but that the rest of the city was ours. He had troops on every street to guard against pillaging and to reassure the citizens they were safe.The high priest of mithras joined us, along with many other priests, giving the blessing of the gods to our cause. We came to the castle proper with no fighting at all.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The high priest called on the gate guards to open the gates, saying that mithras had condemned king sarono as an abomination and anathema, and had ordered him deposed. Someone on the gate tower shot an arrow at the high priest, but it stuck in his gold breastplate. The priest cursed the soldier, and a moment later he fell from the tower and was killed. I think the heart went out of the palace guard after that. The small postern gate opened, and a number of the guard came out to surrender. We disarmed them, and then fought our way through the postern gate. Soon the main gates were opened, and the surviving guards at the gate surrendered. We marched into the palace with little resistance. We found the king in the throne room, surrounded by his fanatics. Many a good soldier died capturing the king. I wanted to kill him there and then, but prospero advised that we take him prisoner, and have him tried for his crimes. This we did."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik took a deep breath. "We captured the king, his advisors and toadies, plus his inquisitors and the palace guard. We convened a court, with myself, prospero, the high priest, the army commanders, and the other barons, and tried the king and the others. Many of the palace guard pointed out that their duty was to protect whoever wore the sun crown with their lives. In the end most of the surviving palace guard was pardoned, but the king, his inquisitors and torturers and many of his advisors were condemned to death. I had the pleasure of personally beheading sarono, and we stuck his head on a pike outside the castle gates.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The barons squabbled about who should be king, Prospero was next in line but he was adamant he did not want to be the sun king. He was content to be head of the house of poitain, and advisor to the king. He insisted that I should be king." He snorted. "The barons squealed like stuck pigs, but prospero was right, the armies support me, in preference to him. The barons decided that I was preferable to one of themselves, and more civil war. I have no doubt that had old duke leto survived, he would have been king, he was popular, but prospero was younger than most of the barons, and did not have their respect or support."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He laughed. "So that is my story, of the village boy who rose to be king. That was five years ago now. I knew little of statecraft, but prospero proved a good teacher. He is a good man and an honourable one like his father, and unlike most of the other barons. I often wish i was still just a simple villager, but if I don't do something about the injustices of the country, no one else will. At least as king I have that chance. I may not be a good king, but most of the barons would be much worse."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero's tale was similar, although he tended to downplay his own role, and agrandize armik's role. If you believe prospeo, the barons had demanded amrik as king.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well" ra'anor remarked "that is a tale worthy of a hero. You will make a good king amrik, provided you never forget your roots, and never forget what happened to you village. You must strive to see that things like that can never happen again, although never is a long time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik nodded and spoke softly "Thank you ra'anor. I think prospero would make a better king, except he does not want it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero doesn't have the fire in the belly that you have, friend amrik." i remarked. "I know he is smart and knows more about politics and so on, but he isn't ruthless enough to be king at this time. He makes a perfect second in charge."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik looked at me with surprise. "I hadn't thought of it in those terms, but that is exactly how I see him. People like him, but he is not his father, he cannot inspire them to follow him into battle the same way. He is a little fussy about necessary killing. Mind you, at the time of the king's execution, I could not see the need for the trials. I would have been happy to have all of them summarily executed and be done with. Now I realise that his desire for what he called a lawful transition of power was correct - after all, technically we were all guilty of treason. As best we could we had to act within the law, and by involving all the barons in the decision, none of them could later claim that we were guilty of treason, but he was not, and so lay claim to the throne."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He paused and looked thoughtful. "I do not think I shall ever forget my village." Then his voice hardened. "Also I shall never forget the king's torture chambers, and the poor victims we found there, dreadfully maimed and in terrible agony, or the drinking cups made from human skulls, the lamp shades made from human skin, and other artifacts made from human remains. We burned them all on a funeral pyre, so their spirits may at least find peace. My one regret is that the king and his torturers died swiftly. We did not burn them, instead we exposed their corpses on what is now called the field of blood, for the wild animals to eat. May their spirits be forever tormented!" He glared angrily for an instant, then recovered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We have decided that we should curb the power of the king and the nobles, try to avoid the excesses in future. That is where the parliaments come in." He looked to enyil.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She explained "The idea is that there will be three lawmaking bodies, but a law does not become law unless all three approve the law. They will be the king, the parliament of lords, and the parliament of commoners. The king works alone, although he has advisers to help him. Some he selects himself, some will be drawn from the two parliaments. Those details have yet to be worked out.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The parliament of the lords draws its members one from each noble house. Normally that would be the head of the house, but the head may send someone else in his stead. The parliament of the lords has existed for a month now. The parliament of the commoners will have its members elected by the commoners, they will serve for three years, and will be paid a salary for that time. The details have yet to be worked out, and the nobles are vehemently opposed to the parliament of the commoners.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We have been studying different shadows, including your own, for examples of how parliamentary governments are set up. We like your westminster system, but not the fact that the king is a sinecure. We like your american presidential system, but not the fact that everyone including the president is elected."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Plus of course" amrik added "we must somehow get the support of the army and the nobles, or there will be another civil war."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror shook his head. "We elect our queen, plus her council of advisors. The electors are the adult members of our community. Once elected, their word is law, though if we have a bad queen we can convene a meeting of the electors and depose her. That has rarely happened. We have little in the way of armed forces, or police services. We don't seem to need them. Obviously your situation is far more complex. Our people may number only a few thousand all up."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And of course, your people have a tradition extending back thousands of years, all your adults are educated, and have a sense of community." i commented. "Amrik's people are more like ours, many are not well educated, many selfishly look at only their own needs, and ignore those of the community. Parliamentary systems work well provided everyone plays by the rules. As soon as someone brings in a private army, you have trouble. What we've tried to do is to make the army loyal to the government, not individual leaders. But our governments cannot raise the army, and countries where army leaders go into politics always seem to have trouble."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik nodded "It is not easy is it? At least we can learn from other countries' mistakes and try to avoid them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Who were you thinking of allowing to vote?" nalini asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You may be surprised to know that enyil and i agree that electors should include both adult men and adult women. I know the custom here is to assume that women are good for nothing other than looking pretty, and taking to bed, but in my village the women often had more say than the menfolk on the day to day running of the village. What we are not sure on is how far to extend it. Many people here cannot read or write, but I do not think that makes them stupid."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Enyil added "The barons want it restricted to rich landowners, and men only. I believe we should exclude those who are stupid, but what do we do about those who are uneducated? How can they make informed decisions?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini chuckled "That's just part of the election process - explaining policies to the voters. I agree with amrik, most of them aren't stupid. You should exclude the ones who are mad, and maybe those who are drunk? But consider this, in the shadow where danny and i live is a country called New Guinea. They have a parliament elected by all the adult population, yet most of the adult population can neither read nor write, and many of them have never been outside their own village. Their grandparents were headhunters and cannibals, with each village warring on its neighbours. Yet they vote, they have a workable government. I think it will work here quite well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "The main thing I see is communications. You can elect the government, but you may need to have smaller regions with local councils to oversee the day to day running of things, rather than continually defer all decision making to a central authority, and have the process take days or even weeks."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They both nodded. Amrik replied "That is a good point. Each village could have its head, each group of villages its council, but with the same laws appying. It will still take some organization though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Actually, one more point on that - you need to set up a system across the entire kingdom that will ensure that letters and parcels can be delivered to the right place and quickly." We got into a discussion about postal services, including things like the old Royal Mail with post houses every few miles to permit changing of horses.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik replied "We do have something like that, but it has been used only for the king, the barons and the generals. It only goes to major cities."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You should also consider treaties with your neighbours to allow passage of mail with them as well. That's probably not as important though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik looked thoughtful. "I need to talk with my advisers. You should have brought prospero. Nemedia, Argos and Zingara are our main trading partners. They might be agreeable. We also have ambassadors from Corinthia, Ophir, Vanora, Masala, some smaller eastern countries I cannot now remember, and of course the huge Turanian empire that borders the inland sea far to the east. We will set up our own service first, but we need to think about exactly how this will work. Nemedia certainly has spies here, its king was friendly to the deposed king, not myself. He would look for any opportunity to cause trouble. Turania too has spies, and the Iron Emperor would certainly love to expand his empire westwards."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Trade and treaties can certainly help prevent war, but spies and a strong army will help." I was thinking about things prospero had told me. "You need good roads so you can move the army about quickly, you need good communications so you know what is happening in distant places, and the army should be centrally controlled by good generals who are loyal to the government. If you have a lot of smaller private armies owned by the barons, then barons can be bought by neighbouring countries, and many of them may not fight if the trouble isn't in their back yard. And your soldiers should be professionals, who are paid by the government, and are willing to move anywhere around the kingdom."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik was nodding as i spoke. "The king's army is professional, and paid for from the treasury. Its officers and men are trained, no noble can simply buy a commission. Most of the men are loyal to me personally, and to the throne. But currently most of the barons have private armies; we are considering what we can do about that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Enyil added "In the system we are setting up, the king will always be the head of government, the commander of the armed forces."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amril chuckled "I have been considering appropriating each baron's private army, and amalgamating it with the king's. The barons will still have to pay for their private army, and in return they will receive an equal number of king's troops. Some of the soldiers will be their own men, but many will be from somewhere else, so their loyalty will be to their king, not their baron."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Enyil added "We are also looking at creating a police force. Currently we have a city watch in each city, plus the palace guard in Tarantia. Soldiers of course are trained to fight and follow orders, not to solve crimes or perform community policing duties. Amrik has learned the difference, but before we can set up a police force we need to have police training centers, which means we need to develop our training courses. It is never ending!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik nodded good naturedly "I've always thought that community policing was the same as the city watch, which is made up of older soldiers. Enyil took me on a tour of six shadows to see for myself how police worked. I can't say I know a lot about it, but I can see how it is different from the city watch. We are thinking of hiring people from several shadows to set up our fledgling police accademy."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "A police force is very necessary for protection of the public, the prevention of crime and for solving crimes. The army should be for the defence of the realm, and maybe putting down riots. They can act as deterrents to crime, but they lack the training to solve crimes or catch criminals. You need a good police force, but you will have to start with the watch. Good police take time to train, I'm sure you know" nalini stated.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik nodded, waving his wine cup around. "Enyil thinks we should start an entirely new force, I am for training the watch and using them. What do you thing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini shrugged "It probably doesn't make all that much difference, provided the watch don't lose their jobs. Then again, not all the watch may not be suitable for policing jobs."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Starting a new force has the advantage of a clean slate. You can start new traditions and customs, and do away with old ways. Actually, you should have a talk to young liz when we bring her here, her people have set up their own police assistants - they are not fully trained police, but members of the local community with a uniform and some training. They perform some of the functions; that may be a way of getting started quickly. Set up a force, train them for a month or so, then put them to use. You can continue their training as they work, and as they find out what works best. Maybe you can then include the watch, even if most of them do little more than patrol the streets like they do now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We spoke for several hours, far longer than we expected to stay. Amrik wanted us to stay, but we had to return the truck. He seemed in good spirits, and now that much of the day to day running of the realm was delegated to others, he was free to concentrate on policy making, questions of equality, and to enjoy himself from time to time.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                     ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 On our return journey durathror suggested that both prospero and paula should be allowed to practice their shifting on the way back to tarantia. "It seems a fairly straight forward journey, and I believe they both have the necessary skill levels to handle it. You and nalini will need to keep an eye on them though. If you like, ra'anor and i will take the dog."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was starting to reaslise how nalini had felt those first few times when I tried shifting us on my own. With an inexperienced shifter there is always a risk of selecting a dangerous shadow. "Maybe you should take liz as well? Or perhaps we take liz and the dog, and you guide prospero and paula?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But that is precisely what we have been doing. We feel they are no longer dangerous, but in need of practice. We will take liz if she wishes, but she may be happier with the four of you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Except that she may not be happy with some of the shadows in which we find ourselves." nalini remarked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor laughed. "If she wants to learn, she should start as everyone else has. Perhaps atlendor may be free soon, and can start teaching her."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror added "She is not yet advanced enough in dreaming. But I will enquire with my sister imladril about a torc for her. These things cannot be rushed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was excited about the prospect of shifting all the way to tarantia, prospero nervous. Liz was simply excited at the chance of going to a royal wedding. She was quite happy to come with the rest of us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We would be walking, for exactly the same reason that durathror and ra'anor were taking the dog with them: with prospero and paula shifting, we were at risk of walking into odd shadows that could spook the horses. There always was a risk of this, but much lower with experienced shifters.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Walking meant that we were restricted in what we could carry, but the bulk of what we wanted to bring with us we would give to druathror and ra'anor, who would take our luggage on a pack animal or two.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz brought her luggage with her that day, on the understanding that she would stay the night. Durathror and ra'anor arrived in the mid afternoon, bringing with them atlendor. He stood tall and proud, honey skin, tribal tattoos and blond hair in beaded braids. I presumed he was shape shifted, because he should be no taller than durathror and ra'anor with green eyes. Previous times we had seen him he had been pale skinned with dark hair and eyes, so it was difficult to be sure.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They grabbed a bite to eat, loaded the pack horses, and then departed down the road. Liz asked "Is that tall guy the same race as durathror?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm not sure. I know atlendor is kin, but i have never met either of his parents. Don't forget the viharani comprise a number of different races. You just have to look at ra'anor."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She nodded. "He's a bit of a spunk actually." Then she giggled. "Do you think there'll be a chance to talk to him at the wedding?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "More than likely, we're going to be there for a few days. As far as I'm aware, he's unattached, so he might be interested in talking with you as well." We didn't mention that it was quite likely that if they hit it off, atlendor would assume responsibility for her initial tuition.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After dinner we shocked liz by bringing out weapons and armor. We'd fetched her a ceramic mail jerkin, and had her try it on for size.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What's all this for?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Shadow shifting can be dangerous, and it is quite a way to Tarantia." I held up the mail shirt. It appears to be made from linked rings of white ceramic, on a cloth backing, but there is some seriously high tech stuff behind the scenes. "This is bullet proof, yet it weights about half a kilogram. We probably won't need them, but we'll all be wearing one just in case."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz made a face as if she were having second thoughts about coming, but she tried the jerkin on for size. It fitted reasonably well. "Where did you guys get this?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "A distant shadow. It's some sort of police anti riot gear, as near as we can judge. Nothing we've tried can cut the links, but when it's struck by a bullet, it stiffens to absorb the impact and spread it over your entire body. We figure it's better to be safe than sorry."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, I'll wear it. What's with all the hardware though?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were three swords lying beside our packs, one for prospero, myself and nalini. They were oiled and sharpened, ready for use. On the table prospero had spread out newspapers, and was checking the action on a thirty eight special. There were five nearly identical guns, one of each of us, but two for paula, spare magazines, and a number of boxes of bullets. Nalini sat down, spread some more newspaper, and began stripping another of the guns.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Shadows can be dangerous." she commented. "We'd prefer to avoid ending up dead, or raped. Liz, can you use a gun, or any weapon?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz thought about it for a moment. "Uh... I've fired my brother's twenty two a couple of times, that's all."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Mmm, I'd like you to carry a weapon, but only something you can use. I should have thought about this earlier, we could have given you some training with a pistol. Maybe you should just carry a knife?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe she could take one of the rifles?" prospero looked up. "They're a bigger bore, but probably the same principal."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They're also heavy." i commented. "We don't expect trouble, but this is just insurance." I sat beside nalini, picked up my pistol. "I think you should just take a knife, but if you want a pistol, say so. We've others, there's time to show you how to use it tonight. The most important thing is weapon safety, and knowing which end to point, and where not to point."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz sat beside paula, who was busy loading bullets into magazines. She was carefully checking each one for signs of corrosion, or indications of imperfections that might cause that bullet to jam. Guns can be wonderful weapons but they have the damndest tendency to jam at the wrong moment.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked across at me with big eyes. "What would I use a gun on? These things won't be much use against wild animals."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini looked up. "Liz, the most dangerous creature out there is human. You can walk into the safest feeling shadow, only to find there's a linch mob after you because you're black. The gun isn't to kill people, it's to give you the chance to shift out."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Or a rape mob." paula commented without looking up.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, there are additional risks for females." nalini replied. "Mind you, there are worse things than rape."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nalini, how can you say that?" paula asked. "I'd rather be dead than raped."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, i don't know" nalini answered. "How about being quadraplegic, with your eyes put out, and your tongue torn out, or being smeared with honey and buried up to your neck in an ant nest? It'll take you days to die."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula made a face. "You know what I mean."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz commented "I agree with you nalini. You can survive rape, if they don't rough you up to much. I'm not so scared of death, but injury."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula commented "So how come you two agree? You been raped liz?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula!" nalini interjected sharply. Then she looked straight at liz, adding more softly "I was raped, I survived, I healed. I won't forget though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked at nalini with wide eyes. "Danny knows about this? He doesn't think any less of you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini shook her head. "Yes, he knows all about it, probably more than most other guys would, he shared my memories of it not long after we met. That was deliberate - if it caused him a problem, I wouldn't be here with him. If any guy does have a problem with it, he's a jerk, and not worth worrying about. I don't go around advertising what happened, but i don't hide it either. It's nothing to be ashamed of." She paused for a moment, considering.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, we were talking about how shadow shifting can be dangerous. It isn't a walk in the park, but usually it's quite safe. Back when I first learned, I was young and stupid. I travelled a lot by myself. I got gang raped five times before I learned to take proper precautions. Twice were just random bad luck, i was shadow shifting, walking along a road through a forest when some brigands waiting in the trees to waylay travellers waylayed me and raped me. They roughed me as well, and then let me go. I shifted out, but in my panic went straight into a similar shadow, where another gang of brigands raped me. But the other three times were people I knew, in shadows where I was staying, and where I thought I was safe. I'm lucky I didn't die, because one lot did try to kill me. I can now recognize danger more readily, so I avoid it. But like I said, I survived, I healed. There's worse things than rape. But if you want a gun, we'll get you one. You don't have to shoot a rapist, just point in in the right direction and pull the trigger." She snorted. "Mind you, a shot to the balls, or perhaps a kneecapping, would be a good idea." She was smiling again.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula said in a small voice "Sorry nalini, I can be a bit insensitive at times."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini grinned an evil grin. "We know paula. But if you've never been raped, maybe you should share some of my memories. It would give you an appreciation of what happens..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh uh" paula shook her head.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz piped up "I survived too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini said "I though you might have been. You feel like talking about it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, I guess it's nothing to be ashamed of. Well, I was thirteen at the time, hangin' roun' with a mob on da beach." She was reverting to slang, indicating she was nervous. "There were some older blokes dere, mebbe twenny or twenny one. Five of 'em took me up the dunes into the bushes, and took it in turns. They was threatnin' ta kill me, i was yellin' at 'em that if they beat me up they'd catch it anyway." Liz was staring into space, somewhere behind nalini's shoulder. "Dey all did it twice, den dey pissed on me, and left." Paula caught nalini's look, put her arm around liz.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented softly "Don't say any more you don't want to." She reached over, patted liz's hand, leaving an oily mark.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's okay. I went home cryin', me mum straight away asked me if some bloke had raped me. So I cried, an' I tole her who dun it, and she called me gran, and next fing me gran came roun' wiv some of de uver elders, and dey all listened. An' den de nex' day, de elders got de rest of de mob together, an' they brought out de boys what dun it, and they gave 'em a choice - they could each pay me five grand, or they could face a tribal spearing, or me dad an me cousins'd rough 'em up like they dun to me. One chose a spearin', the others tried to run. None of dem coulda paid five grand anyway. The other four got beat up, nothing serious, just black eyes, lots of bruises, and then people held 'em while they all got a spearing as well. We never told the cops or nothing. I don't think any of them ever did something like that again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "I can understand your cousins beating them up, and I can understand the option of paying you money, but what is a spearing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Tribal punishment. You do something that breaks tribal laws, the usual punishment is one of the menfolk from the victim's family spears the bloke in the thigh. Doesn't kill or cripple, but it sure hurts them for weeks. It's also a public shaming of them. Not everyone agrees with it these days, so the elders often give them an option of getting beat up instead. There's less chance of the cops causing trouble that way too, since spearing isn't approved by most courts."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was nodding "Any punishment that prevents someone from reoffending is a successful punishment. You are very brave liz."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I felt good about what happened to them! Everyone knew what they dun to me, but they got theirs an' everyone knew about it too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini patter liz's hand again. "Thank you for telling us liz. You are very brave. But like I said, it's nothing for you to be ashamed of, we have to stop thinking we should be ashamed. It's the men who should feel ashamed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "Why do men commit rape? Is it because they don't have a girlfriend, or can't afford a prostitute?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It has very little to do with sex." nalini responded. "It's a power thing. And usually it's someone you know. They decide to put you down, they use their dicks and their fists to try to do that. A female walking alone is a challenge to their power. There's probably a lot of latent homosexuality in it as well. They really get off having sex with their mates, but they can't do that, so they all have sex with the same girl, and watch each other. Most of them can't relate to women."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz commented "I had some councelling after it happened. The councellor said something similar. I felt terrible for ages after it happened, because the whole community knew about it, and some of the kids'd call me names; but I'd call names back, and my mob.. sorry my family were very supportive, but they weren't pitying or anything, it was like "okay, it's happened, but you're still in one piece, and we still love you, so pick yourself up and keep going.", and eventually i did. I don't think about it now, i don't have dreams about it, usually i don't worry about it, but i haven't talked to anyone outside my family since then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini said simply "Your family has a healthy attitude. We should look at it as not much different from say getting beaten up and a broken arm. It happened, we heal, get over it, and go on with our lives. No one here will look down on you or anything. Paula can be a bit insensitive at times, but she's learning. In fact she was very lucky something similar didn't happen to her. It almost did, didn't it paula?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Um... yeah, I guess it could have." She took her arm away, turned to look at liz. "I think you've heard how prospero and i met?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Probably not, because that was before I knew you guys could shadow shift. You said prospero comes from europe."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, er... yeah. No, the three of us went shadow walking, or rather, danny and nalini went shadow walking, i was just tagging along, like you're gonna be. We stopped somewhere, I went for a walk. Had to pee actually. Next thing i know, these creepy lizard guys jumped me, and i wound up naked in a dungeon, chained up with prospero and amrik. I didn't get raped, but i guess if they'd been human instead of lizards they might have. Danny and nalini had to rescue all of us, it was quite an adventure really. I nearly got killed several times, in fact we all nearly got killed several times. [* See "Shadow of the Serpent" for more details] That made me decide to learn how to use a gun, and self defense. You should too liz. It's usually safe, but not always."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked thoughtful. Nalini added "Shadow shifting isn't really any more dangerous than some places here. These guns are illegal here, so we don't carry them around here. There's probably counless other shadows where these are also illegal. Guns don't solve everything either. If you carry one, there's a tendancy to use them to solve sticky situations instead of relying on your wits. We carry them because we all know how to use them. There is time tonight to show you how to use one, although we won't make you a good shot in that time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shrugged. "I do know a bit of self defense actually. I started after i got raped. I don't like knives, but a gun might come in handy."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I had finished checking our guns. She put the kettle on, I went to collect some pistols. All our guns are kept out of sight under lock and key. I returned carrying several boxes and put them on the table. Liz was asking "Nalini, I've just had a thought. Those chain mail shirts are from some place that is more advanced than here, so why don't you have any weapons from there?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good question. We never actually visited the shadow, we used our powers to search for chain mail that was light but bullet proof. This we found. To find a weapon, we first need to visualize it,otherwise we cannot find it. One day we should try to find that shadow, and take a look around. I would like to find crowd control type weapons that don't kill."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "It would be good if we could, but a shadow that specializes in crowd control might be a police state that could be dangerous to us. Don't forget our adventures with prospero were only a few months ago. We don't want too much excitement!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I opened one carton, displaying a gun similar to the ones we carried. "First things first liz. Weapon safety. We need to be sure you won't shoot us accidentally."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We spent perhaps thirty minutes going through weapon safety and firing drill with an empty pistol; long enough to drink our coffees. Then we adjourned to an empty shadow with sunlight for some practice with live ammunition.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The sky was pale yellow, streaked with orange and brown clouds. The region was fairly open, tufted reddish grasses covering the ground. There was a stand of bottle shaped trees nearby, their broad trunks about three meters hign and one meter wide, each with five or six red feathery fronds standing up another four or five meters.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I put the box containing the gun similar to ours on the ground in front of liz. "Okay liz. I'll get you to try each gun, to see which you prefer. Start with that one. Load it, shoot five shots into that tree over there, and then unload it. We'll all stand behind you. You're on your own. Good luck!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stayed parhaps an hour or so, until we ran out of ammunition. By that stage liz could manage to hit the tree four times out of five with the thirty eight like ours, two times in five with the small berretta, and maybe three times in five with the other thirty eight.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "You've done well liz. Now you get to clean the guns."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh. Uh... my hands feel a bit sore."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That can happen. We probably overdid the shooting in our enthusiasm."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We got back and sat liz down at the table, setting her to cleaning each gun. Paula asked "Which one are you going to choose?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz picked up the berretta "I like this little one the best, but it doesn't shoot straight. I guess i should take that one like yours."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini chuckled "That little one is suitable to stick in your handbag, but you really can't hit anything more than about five meters away. Take it if you want. We've found this particular model, the stallion thirty eight police special, is the most accurate, and the most reliable. Doesn't come from this shadow either, but we can walk there in about forty minutes. We'll take you there for shooting practice from time to time. It's a fairly close clone of America, almost everyone carries guns, so parts of it can be quite dangerous."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I laughed "And apart from that, you'll probably love the place."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next morning we were up not long after sunrise, around five thirty. None of us like alarm clocks, preferring to wake when we are ready. The bedrooms being on the east side of the house usually means we wake with the sun, in late summer that is still quite early.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We ate a hearty breakfast, cleaned up, and set off. Nalini fussed a little, asking questions like "Everyone been to the toilet?", and making sure we had everything with us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i wore similar back packs, lightly loaded with a change of clothes plus a few necessities like towel and soap. Nalini carries a medical kit, I carry our camera. Our swords are attached to the packs, hilts projecting over our shoulders for easy grasping. We both wear our guns in specially made holsters that resemble bum bags or fanny packs, depending on your country of origin. Worn to the front, they hold the gun itself plus three spare magazines. The guns themselves are loaded, but there is no round in the firing chamber. I wore dark blue army style fatigues with several pockets and a selection of little gadgets, hiking boots, a t-shirt with the chain mail over that. Nalini wore loose black slacks, similar boots, and a t-shirt.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula wore black jeans, black t-shirt, chain mail. She wore a long knife on her right hip, one gun in a modified shoulder holster attached to her pack strap, and a second in a special holster like nalini and i wore. Her shoulder holster was designed to prevent the gun from falling out, but unlike our holsters, made for a quicker draw. Grasping the gun handle released the clasp}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero wore a sword at his left hip, a dagger on his right, and a gun in a holster similar to the rest of us. He wore new looking blue jeans, hiking boots, mail, and a pair of binoculas slung around his neck. There was a steadying clip that attached to the pack strap should it be needed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz wore faded blue jeans, new looking boots we'd bought her a month ago, and the mail we'd given her. Her pack was new, and she wasn't completely comfortable wearing it. We didn't have another special holster for her, so her gun was in a modified shoulder holster similar to paula's, only slung lower because of her larger breasts.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right" nalini remarked "One of you two can start, and we'll change over in about half an hour, or when you feel tired."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Let me go first!" paula asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, but we'll be monitoring where you shift to, if we tell you no, don't argue, and don't shift. Let's go out into the street, and head toward the park."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "We'll all stay together. Liz, please keep close to danny or me. The others can find their way home, you can't."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I don't know why it is, but we always head off toward the park. It's down hill, with views across the valley, and we usually walk the dog that way. Then again, the bus stop is in the opposite direction. We proceeded in a series of small shifts, with a pause between shifts while paula selected the next one.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The sky became a little darker, the houses slightly different, growing more different with each shift. By the fourth shift we reached roughly where the park had been. Nalini and I could still see our own shadow, but then our powers were stronger. Our park was just a flat expanse of green where children played and dogs ran about. This park was larger, with a lake in the middle. I realised that there were no high voltage transmission towers in the distance either.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was doing what we all do, following a line of related shadows in the rough direction of our destination. I could see that the probably line curved away in a few more shifts; she'd have to switch tracks soon. Following a line is usually reasonably safe, but switching to a new track has risks. A shadow shifter can feel if a shadow is dangerous, but this isn't always a hundred percent reliable.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We walked toward the lake, the air growing colder and deeper blue with each shift. The lake developed an island covered with birches and alders in full autumn color. Three more shifts and there was a bridge across to the island, with cars and trucks.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula asked "Hey guys, does this curve back, or just keep diverging? Can you tell?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "Paula, we aren't supposed to tell you about that. This is your practice, you have to do the best as you see fit. But if you are going to change track, just let us know which track."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, I guess you're right. As far as I can tell, this line curves away, so I have to change tracks. Lemme think."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "You can discuss it with prospero if you like."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i checked out the choices they discussed. At one point I commented "If that's the same one I'm looking at, I'd suggest you two tke another look."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero remarked "It doesn't feel right, somehow. That's my impression, but I can't put my finger on it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hmmm, I agree, but I can't see why."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I consulted mentally. Nalini answered "It's subtle, and not that dangerous, but it isn't a line you want to follow. Paula, take us there to have a look, then bring us back here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We shifted to a world with pale green sky and brownish orange clouds. The air smelled strongly of oil, tar and other aromatics. Liz remakred "It smells like an oil refinery!" To me it seemed that if we lit a match, the whole place might explode. We walked across cruddy brown mud, and paula shifted us back to the lake side.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ugh! I didn't like that place. Now I know why it didn't feel right."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We nodded. "Often, the only way to learn is to go to places like that, but be prepared to shiftback again immediately."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We let her select a different line, and we walked under a yellow sky across a lush green landscape. I noticed my breathing rate increase, indicating the carbon dioxide levels were probably higher. There seemed to be a faint smell of sulfer in the air. Somewhere in the distance some animal trumpeted loudly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were animal trails to follow, we picked the broadest and set off. Liz asked "Is this place dangerous?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We're in no danger here, although there are large animals out there that would hunt us. We'll follow this for a while."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Much of the vegetation was ferns and brackens, but taller trees grew here and there. Many resembled palm trees with darker leaves. We came upon some tracks of large animals. One type looked like an elephant but was about the size of a car tyre, indententations on one side showing vestigal toes. There were several different sized sets with three toes, ranging in size from about a foot long to over a meter long.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero stopped us to study them. Liz commented "They're bloody big animals! What are they?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You took the words right out my mouth." Prospero replied. "They are not that fresh, perhaps a day old, but these large ones look familiar."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They're probably dinosaur tracks liz." I commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Kewl!" from Liz.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh Gawd!" from paula. "Let's get out of here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How can you tell how old they are?" liz asked prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, hunting is still a popular pass time among the nobles back home. It is not something I enjoy, but tracking animals is a skill I have learned. You see how these smaller three toed prints are on top of these large round one? They mean the large ones were made first. There are a number of them, it looks as if two large animals walked this way." he pointed in the same direction as we were walking. "The edges of the tracks are not sharp, there are puddles of water, my judgement is at least half a day has passed, perhaps a day. There were five, maybe six of these bird footed animals, I think they walk on two legs, i think there are six different sets."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Or maybe they have six legs each, and there are two of them." nalini commented. "We can't assume that animals here have four legs or two just because those back home do. But you are probably right prospero."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero pointed "See how these round ones are relatively even? The front and back are a similar depth? That is an animal that has four legs, or more. Two legged animals tend to lean forward, so their toe impressions are deeper. I think these pursuers have two legs, they are probably a little larger than we are. The large animals must be massive, at least four times larger than an elephant, possibly as large as ten times the size. I have not seen these before. I think maybe the smaller animals hunted the larger, but they may not be large enough."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He stood, walked back to the large three toed print. "But these have i seen before. Do you remember those beasts the serpent men rode?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shook her head. Paula supplied "They look like a T-Rex."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "They can eat a horse in two bites, and can run fast enough to catch one easily. The stride of this one is about four meters, so it probably stands eight or ten meters tall."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I hope there isn't one near by. I guess guns won't be much use against them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, but an anti tank missile does wonders!" paula replied. "Let's get moving before it comes back!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As we regrouped, I remarked "And millions of years from now, archeologists will puzzle over our bootprints!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini laughed. "They'll probably decide we're some strange kind of animal!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula continued shifting along this line, and after three shifts I spotted a small herd of animals in the distance, cropping the tops of trees. They looked a lot like the large herbiverous dinosaurs, with blimp like bodies, long tails and long necks. Prospero stopped us again so he could study them with his binoculars. He took a photo with a telephoto lens, and then we continued.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Again this line of shadows snaked away, but now we were faced with a bewildering array of strange shadows. Nalini and i agreed on which one we would choose, so we advised paula.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stepped onto pink gravel under pale pink skies. Here and there were high streaks of yellowish clouds. The wind was cool, blowing from some distant snow covered peaks. There was nothing else in sight, just the expanse of pink gravel blown into dunes. The next shift brought tufts of rust red vegetation, but with the next that became white spikey finger like things.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Then we stopped again, because the nearby shadows all reeked of danger. The shadows seemed similar to the current one, empty deserts. Paula asked "Do we have to backtrack? What's wrong with these ones, can either of you tell?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I stood quite still for a while, using our sorcerous senses to sift each of the shadows around us. "Poison gas. Some of them are low pressure. Okay paula, prospero, sift them, decide which one we should take."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was some discussion, because routes nalini and i would have taken were not visible to them. Nalini said to me <<I think we should restrict it to the shadows they can detect. This is good practice for them, if they have to back track, so be it.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero announced "Some of the odd ones seem safe."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What do you think paula?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There are three I can see." She described them, prospero agreed with her assessment.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right, take the second one." nalini advised.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We walked onto a highly polished metalic surface, silver colored, with regular corrugations that ran off into the distance. A brassy mist obscured the distance. Odd blimp like creatures floated nearby, while a swarm of small silvery insects buzzed around them. Strange plants that looked like messes of brass tubing with offshoots bearing brightly colored ceramic bowls spotted the landscape here and there.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We shifted again and now the sky was silver mother of pearl, the surface regular tiles of silver and gold. Pink crystaline structures grew here and there. A red river flowed down a nearby rise, stepped as if built from large blocks. The river was sluggish and sticky, reminding us of blood.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next shift was abrupt, silvery blue mother of pearl sky, soft violet colored moss underfoot, green crystal boulders, strange silver trees that tinkled like wind chimes in the breeze. A large slug like creature was seated on what could have been a mushroom five meters wide and four high. It had several branches from the trees in front of it, a hand like appendage holding one against what had to be a mouth, the orange rubbery lips closed on the branch, while something worked behind the lips on the branch inside the mouth. It had four eyes on stalks, two of them swivelled to follow us as we walked past. Prospero snapped a picture; he was using fast film to avoid having to use a flash.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With the next shadow, the moss turned silvery grey, the sky became a copper bowl. There were odd angular bushes that seemed to be made of milky white crystal, and yellow barrel shaped plants covered with bright red spines. Nearby were three huge snail like creatures, their conical shells the color of slate. They seemed to be grazing on the cactus like plants. Prospero took another picture.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula announced "I'm tired of shifting. It's your turn prospero."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Does anyone want to rest? Or a toilet break?" nalini asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a chorus of noes, we were walking slowly. Prospero took a different line, branching into a freezing cold shadow, high up a mountain trail. The trail was perhaps two meters wide here, its edge dropping steeply into a ravine where a tiny silver thread ran. The other side of the ravine was much lower, whitewashed stone houses nestled on flatter areas, and terraced crops grew. Dark skinned people in bright colored dresses and shawls tilled the ground. In the distance sharp fangs of tall mountains reared into the sky, snow and ice covering their flanks, and plumes of snow blowing from their crests. Ahead of us was a pale skinned person with long hair, bright red and yellow woollen skirt, blue back pack, walking away from us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sorry!" prospero appologized. "I didn't realize it was this cold!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Don't worry, it happens. We can't always pick temperate shadows, we'd be a whole month travelling."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Howdy people! Didn't see you below at Ang's place." a male voice hailed us in american accented english.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We turned to see a sandy haired guy about thirty five, wearing wollen slacks, woollen jumper, knitted beanie, and carrying a huge bright red back pack.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, we're with a different group." i told him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Really! It's a great view isn't it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You bet. We were thinking of taking a picture or two."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero obligingly took out his camera. The guy started admiring the camera, so prospero made his accent heavy. "Sorry, not spik Inlish many. Good camera, yes?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh yes, good camera. good view. good luck!" he walked on.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stopped to let him get ahead, and then started walking slowly. More people rounded a bend in the trail about fifty meters behind us. "If we shift now, they'll see us." prospero noted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do it while they're still far enough away." nalini replied. "It doesn't matter if they see us, as long as they aren't close enough to be sucked after us. Three or four meters is good enough."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It'll give them something to talk about."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With a swirl of color, the scene shifted. The sky was pale blue, greenish overtones. We were still on a mountainside, but it was warmer. The ravine was shallower, the river broader. On the other side was another village of stone houses with red roofs. In the distance reared tall snow covered peaks. Fifteen meters ahead, our trail headed across the ravine via a rickety wooden bridge suspension bridge. On the otherside a team of what looked like pack yaks were heading onto the bridge, accompanied by an elderly man and a young boy. They both wore brightly patterned clothes, trousers and pullovers.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm not having much luck, am I?" prospero complained.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, enjoy the view! Don't worry. This is normal." I tried to reassure him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "This area and the previous one reminds me of the himelayas. This one, the sky looks like in my home shadow. I wonder?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is there any way to know?" paula asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Probably not unless I'd thought to bring a radio or my mobile phone. I didn't think the bridge would be strong enough to carry those yaks. If we're going to stand here and watch, I suggest we move away from the edge so they can pass on the outside."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The young boy took the lead, the old man standing beside the bridge, and beating each yak with a stick as it passed. They walked in single file across the narrow bridge, which swayed alarmingly with their passage. Prospero clambered a little up the path to take a photo of them in the middle of the bridge. When they reached the other side, the little kid looked hard at us, but walked on without a word.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "I was going to walk across the bridge and start shifting on the other side."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's fine. In terms of shifting, it doesn't matter, although the shadows are probably different on the two sides." i remarked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's what we thought. I'm not happy with the shadows i can see over this side."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The yaks passed us. The old man looked at us, then tugged his forelock. I nodded, prospero touched his forehead. The old man walked on away from us, we started across the river.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Partway across I detected a shadow with an immense bridge, and the shadow seemed to be in the right direction. I mentioned it to the others, they were game, so prospero shifted us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A rain washed sky, as painted in water colors on wet paper. There were pinks and greens and greys in the clouds, and brilliant yellow gold tops where the unseen sun struck them. An immense bridge stretched away from us in both directions, disappearing into the clouds at either end. It was wide enough for at least six lanes of cars, but the bridge was devoid of any life we could see. It seemed to be made of bronze, but this could not be the case, since bronze could not have withstood the loads. There were huge beams and girders arching up out of a black chasm, in which we could see nothing. The sounds of many people sighing washed up over us from that chasm, along with the occasional groans. The surface of the bridge was roughened metal that rang under our feet.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I wonder where it goes?" paula asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It might be fun to come back here one day and find out." I replied. "But it's a long walk to the clouds, so we won't go there today."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We discussed the sounds we were hearing, but other than the possibility of the wind blowing through unseen structures, we couldn't think of any answer. Prospero took another photo, and we walked on along the bridge.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Somewhere along the bridge it coincided with another bridge, and we switched. This was an older bridge, iron girders and rivets, across a wide brown river. It carried four lanes of fifties style vehicles, a railway line on the further side, and a footpath where walked. It was dusk.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Another switch and it was full dark. Five bright moons hung in the heavens like scattered coins - copper, silver, gold, red and green. This bridge was narrower still, with no overhead structure. The surface of the bridge was wood, and horse drawn carriages rumbled past.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We switched several times, following a cobbled road that lead to a city that reminded me of london, but back in the nineteenth century. We were now in a fairly busy area, where people in period clothing walked about under the light of two large moons.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm going to try for sunlight again." prospero announced. It was all a matter of selecting the right shadows. Our current one was a more direct route, but it probably didn't matter.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Early dawn on a european country lane, fog on the ground, birds stirring in the hedgerows and trees. Then a green sun peeping over the distant hills, making everyone look billious. Now dirty grey sand, grey water and leaden skies, a cold wind blowing. Several more shifts as the countryside grew greener and wetter. A sudden shower of rain, turning to hail and sleet with the next shift, then back to rain, and finally the aftermath of a storm. The ground squelched.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Next we were walking a causeway over grey sea under leaden skies. The causway seemed to link the green little islands behind us with the mainland ahead of us. The causeway was wooden boards, and wet from the rain. We shifted again to black top on a more modern causeway, red gold sunshine peeping through the heavy clouds. A couple of trucks lumbered past, reminiscent of those back home. There was a whitewashed village nestled around where the bridge joined the mainland, streets radiating out into the incredibly green hills.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Anyone want timeout? I'd like to walk around the village." nalini asked. The rest of us were agreeable.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz added "I'd like to stop and explore a lot of the shadows we've been through. I wouldn't mind a coffee and something to eat."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, nalini and I like to stop in interesting shadows like this, but if we stopped in every interesting shadow, we'd never get anywhere."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The village wasn't that big, all the shops seemed to be in the main street. The locals looked european, and spoke a quaint dialect of english. So mangled was it that we needed to keep the translation spell in order to understand a lot of what was said. An obliging shop keeper told us the main cafes were down toward the shore, where the old ferry terminal used to be. Nalini bought a couple of postcards and a map, and we walked to the ferry terminal. We found ourselves a picturesque little cafe that served devonshire teas and other goodies, found ourselves a table with views of the islands, and settled down. Surprisingly enough, after an hour of walking we were all hungry, and made good use of the clean toilet facilities.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The map was in english, which made things easy. Translation spells will not work on writing or recorded voices; they need close proximity to the speaker's thoughts. This map showed we were on the largest one of a number of islands called collectively the Oakleys. Britain was a different shape, what passed for ireland was joined by a long spure from what might have been Wales. The islands themselves were to the northeast of scotland, and formed a long archepego running up toward a land mass that might have been Sweden or Norway back home. Interestingly enough, the causeway connected all the islands with Britain (they called it that) and also to Norsland, the country to the northeast.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "These probably are the local equivalent of the Orkneys back home. They are in a similar place, and the name is similar."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz commented "Somehow I thought that if they spoke the same language, the maps would look the same."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini laughed "Anything you can think of is out there somewhere. Korum used to tell me that. He used to debate with durathror whether they created the shadows by thinking about them or whether they already existed. I don't think either of them understood the concept of infinite. There will be many shadows very similar to our own, and many that are quite different. There will also be a group that are much the same, but with obvious differences. There is a related group that all speak english, but the dialect differs from shadow to shadow. There is an infinite number of shadows, we can never hope to visit more than a small fraction of those."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "So just do what we do, enjoy the journey. Stay places you find interesting, make friends. If you do pass through an intersting shadow on the way to somewhere else, make a point of stopping for a look around, because you may may never be back."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We all studied the map over our coffees, cakes and devonshire teas, and watched the little fishing boats out in the water. Later the waitress brought the bill: four pounds seven shillings and six pence.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "How are we going to pay? Our money won't be any good here will it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled "Watch and learn liz." She had the air of someone about to perform a trick. She took out a wad of assorted notes collected from any number of shadows, peeled off the outer one. It read X Dracma, and was mainly red. She folded it in her cupped hands, closed her eyes for a moment. She opened her hands again to reveal a slightly tatty green five pound note, complete with image of a king on one side.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How did you do that?" liz was astonished.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sorcery liz. One day you will learn to do the same. It's just an application of power to the universe. Or this banknote in this case."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is is legal?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Probably not, most countries are very particular about people creating bank notes. I don't think it matters if we are just passing through, but nalini and i don't do it if we're staying somewhere."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Liz, this is a real bank note, which is what I think you meant to ask, but it will be identical with another note somewhere around here, probably in the till. The serial numbers will be the same, so the police or banking officials would conclude that one was counterfeit. It's easier with coins because they don't have serial numbers, and it is more difficult in modern shadows where they have electronic cash. I don't know how to create that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It won't change back to what it was?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, that would be illusion. Illusion is often easier, but that would mean the shop keeper is robbed, because the next day they'd find a bank note from some other shadow in their till. That could cause a few other problems as well! We prefer to move through the shadows touching as lightly as possible, so most people who encounter us won't ever realise we aren't from their shadow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But how did you change a bank note from one shadow so it looks like one from another shadow? I mean, you'd have to change the size, change the color, even change the material. How do you do that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We'll have to teach you, once you have enough power. Neither paula nor prospero can do this yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Liz, it comes under the same category as shape shifting. I'm not going to go into that now, but we don't push atoms and molecules around. Instead go back to the dreaming. Everything is shadows, projections if you like. The sorcery works on the projection, by changing the thoughtform that creates it. The same sorcery that changes a bank note into another can change a human body into an animal or something. Once you realise that this can be done, you have to rethink your concept of the fixedness of the physical world. It is harder to change than a dream, but it is the same mechanism."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shook her head. "I don't think I understood most of that, but I've changed things in dreams recently, I guess that's what you're talking about." She shrugged. "I'll wait until you guys teach me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After this, nalini paid the bill, and we left. Paula took over shifting again. We walked down the main street, and with each shift we seemed to be going back in time. The old stone cottages and shops looked progressively newer, the ashphalt on the road became bluestone cobbles, the footpath beside the road changed from concrete to ashphalt then to flag stones. The road became grey gravel, and we were suddenly out of the town and walking through green scottish countryside. The grey skies lightened to deep blue, then shaded to lilac.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With abrupt suddenness, we shifted to concrete paving beside a busy street carrying trucks, cars and busses. There was much exhaust smoke, honking of horns, the cars and trucks were mostly delapidated, and could have come from anywhere in the sixties and early seventies. Most of the people were euopean featured, but with yellowish skins. The building were all featureless, grey concrete constructions six or seven stories high.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With the next shift we were walking a stone flagged path through striking dark blue grass in what appeared to be a park. There was a distant hum of traffic, and white stone buildings could be seen rearing over the tops of the trees. The trees themselves were spreading things with large dark blue leaves. Off to our left was an odd structure of metal and concrete. It was difficult to describe, there were bits of concrete daubed on metal pipes, bent wire dangling here and there}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What on earth is that?" paula asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sculpture?" i hazarded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero declined to photograph it, so we walked on. Our next shift was an underground parking lot, full of unfamiliar cars, concrete pillars and pipes snaking around the ceiling.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our next shift took us out onto brilliant emerald green grass, pale blue skies with masses of dark cloud off to out right, and a distant ring of black standing stones on a hill to out left. Three more shifts and the grass was deep blue green, the sky deep purple, and the sun startlingly green. We were nearing the summit of a hill, with three concentric circles of pink standing stones that almost glowed in the sunlight.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey! wow! Doesn't that look great!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The stones don't look weathered. I'd say they are fairly recent in this shadow." I remarked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So that village down in the valley is probably where the caretakers live. We shouldn't stay for a picnic." nalini announced.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We looked where she was pointing. Perhaps half a kilometer away a stream ran between rocky banks. On a flatter area was a village of perhaps thirty small huts arranged in a three quarter circle, with a wooden palisade around. With prospero's binoculars, I could see that the people within the village were clad in clothes made from the skins of brown and white spotted animals, that they had thicker bodies than humans, and that their faces resembled those of pigs, with snouts and tusks on some of the larger ones.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The rest of us were a little blase, after all you can see all manner of strange creatures in shadows. Liz however almost squealed "Oh my god, the have faces like pigs!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini remarked sardonically "And they probably find us just as ugly. There are many variations on humans, many of them we'd regard as crosses between humans and animals. Some are friendly, most are wary, some are actively hostile. We won't stay long. Take some pictures prospero if you like, and we'll move on. I'm sure none of you want to find out whether those people are friendly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nalini, does it seem to you that the shadows seem to twist and swirl around those stones?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, I see what you mean. There is some sort of power here that is affecting shadows. I think we should be careful, and go around it. Oh no!" Liz had just walked through the first ring, and was approaching the second. "Liz, how do you feel? Did you notice anything strange?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz turned in the process of walking through the second ring, moved into it, then replied "Yeah, I felt a tingle both times I crossed a ring. The second one was stronger."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe you should come back? There's some sort of power centered here, it might be best to avoid it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's ok. I won't be long." With that she turned and walked to the top of the hill, and into the third ring. Nalini and I decided to investigate the sensation she had felt, and hand in hand we walked through the first ring. It was almost like the sensation of stepping through very cold water, but passed in an instant. I felt refreshed, cleansed. The same happened with the second ring.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As we approached the third ring, we saw that Liz was talking with a what appeared to be a dark haired male who was standing beside a stone block. He wore a grey pelt around his loins, and a wolf skin tied around his neck as a cloak, the head forming a cap. In his left hand he carried a flute made from bone, and he wore a necklace of teeth. There were tribal tattoos on his arms and legs.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We hurried up the hill and through the third circle. The figure turned his head to regard us with piercing blue eyes. His face was long, his nose narrow. He was clean shaven.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Definitely not one of the locals.>> I thought to nalini. <<I hope he's friendly.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<I'm sure he wasn't there before. Is it possible he shifted in?>> she thought back. <<He seems friendly enough.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<But if he shifted in he's a sorcerer, that has to make him dangerous.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Maybe we shuld start with appologising for invading this sacred area?>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We spoke in unison, something we tend to do almost without thinking, since we are telepathic with each other. "We appologise for invading your sacred area. The girl is in our care..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<...and you merely seek to ensure that no harm befalls her.>> His words echoed in out mind. His mouth did not move.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh I'm sorry, I should have realized this is a sacred site. Can you forgive us for intruding on sacred ground?" Liz spoke.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Commendable sentiments. Appology accepted. None of you could have entered here without my approval.>>. He turned to liz, beckoned. <<Come girl, join your friends.>>. He turned back to us. <<As you can see, no harm has befallen her. Two who would be sorcerers, and their three pupils. You are far from home. What do you seek here?>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Let's hope he stays friendly.>> i thought to nalini.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We spoke again in unison. "We seek nothing here, we are passing through on our way to a distant realm. But you are right in your assessment, we still have much to learn."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A hint of a smile was playing round his lips. His eyes seemed to twinkle. <<Are you of one mind, or do you seek to impress me?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We are often of one mind...." A tangle of thoughts. We have been telepathic with each other since nalini attuned me to my torc, but while that happened with paula to some degree, and prospero even less, our link was far stronger. There are times when we seem to be but two halves of some greater whole. When we shadowshift, we normally link minds, sift shadows together, and generally share thoughts. We were in this state now, which meant that to an observer we didn't talk much with each other, but then we didn't need to, we were in continuous communion. We spoke to paula, prospero and liz, since the telepathic link hardly existed with them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He finally smiled. <<You should know that your thoughts are as plain as speach to me...Welcome...>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is this a private party or can anyone join?" paula asked. She and prospero had just entered behind us, and moved over to us. "Hi, who are you? Isn't the view marvellous from up here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula, can you show some respect? This is a sacred place." I told her.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, sorry."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "Is there anything special we should do to show our respect?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<As long as you are aware, and are respectfull within yourselves, that is sufficient.>> the stranger said.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini introduced us "This is liz, paula, prospero, I am nalini, my partner is danny."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Ah, you do not fear to give your names. But they mean nothing. I am called Prowling Wolf. I shall give you better names.>> He pointed to me. <<I name you soaring eagle.>> He pointed to nalini. <<I name you stalking jaguar.>> He pointed to paula <<You I name running fox.>> He pointed to prospero. <<You I name laughing wolf. I bid you return here in dreaming. You I will teach.>> He turned at last to liz. <<You I name sea eagle.>> He turned back to nalini and myself. <<Laughing wolf I will become mentor to. The rest of you must find your own. Return here in dreaming, it may be that others of my group will also be here, and one of them may select one of you. For now, all of you watch me closely, there is one thing i will show you.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned, walked away a few paces. In one step his form flickered into a black bear. There was a gasp from liz. Nalini and I were watching the lines of force around the figure with our sorcerous sight. In a second pace he flickered again and became a loping wolf. The wolf turned to face us, became a man with a wolf skin cloak again. <<Who among you saw what I did?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula commented "We all saw you become a bear and then a wolf. Was it illusion or or did you really change, like nalini changes money?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini thought to me <<That is what durathror promised to teach us one day.>> Aloud she said "It was real, like the money paula."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Nalini and I could see what he was doing. The viharani can do the same."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<A good start. Who among you can repeat what I demonstrated?>>. He was looking at nalini and me expectantly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We can't do that!" Paula responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula." I said in a warning tone. She looked at me and quietened down.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Do you think we should try?>> I thought.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<We saw what he did with the energies. It is the same as the money trick, only bigger.>> she thought.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<And of course we're experimenting with ourselves.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<It's probably safe enough. We need to picture what we want, just like the money. I think we know how to do it, but I'm not sure if either of us have enough energy.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Shall we try?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Yes. Together?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Together>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay" We began shucking our packs.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula commented "You guys aren't going to try are you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Its one more step along the road to knowledge. You lot aren't powerfull enough, and you don't know how. We think we know how, but we're not sure if we have enough power."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stood together, and linked minds. It's a sort of nebulous state where individual awareness fades. We can have no secrets from one another in this state. Many people could not handle such. But somewhere down underneath is a well of power we can tap into. We'd done something similar while nalini was teaching me shadow shifting.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Shall we try for a wolf?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Wolf seems good. We saw him do that.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 To feel the energies that flow from the ground and from the sky, the energies of the winds, the energies from the torc and from that other place is to feel alive. We do this in shadow shifting all the time, but this time we needed to turn inward, so manipulate the image we present to the world. We stood there for a time, gathering energies, organizing our thoughts. Mine and hers evaporated; there was an itching in our belly, our knees, little feet were running down our spine. And then suddenly it was as if some halucinogenic drug hit us. The outside world swirled in a vortex that was ourselves, and i was on four legs, looking up at prowling wolf.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula yelled something unintelligable. Nalini was there beside me, a wolf, standing, turning her head to look at me, just as i turned my head to look at her. <<We did it!>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a world of scent assailing my nose, a world I had never dreamed of before. My scent, sort of bluish with gold overtones, nalini's scent, sort of brighter, greenish with golden undertones, the grass, a different green scent, the strong pungent odours from paula and prospero, colored red from their meat diet, somehow reminiscent of bacon, a lighter though similar scent from liz, who ate less red meat, while from the wolf man was a grey blue odour with darker streaks, a scent that said wolf. Nalini and i exclaimed in wonder to each other as we identified each scent.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Very good. Now walk over to me. Do not think about it, just do it.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 To think about walking was to wonder how to move with four legs. We were both paralised for a moment before we trotted over to the wolfman.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Good. Now follow me. This will not take long.>> He became a wolf again, and lead the way through the stones. We loped briefly down the hill, he shadow shifted us twice, quite long shifts, once to green scrub, a second time to dark red earth with sparse eucalypts and bracken. The earth had a rich scent, the eucalypts quite overpowering. A fire was burning, we smelled it before we knew it, and someone was playing what sounded like a didjeridu, accompanied by a harp, and sticks. We rounded a boulder, and there seated on a log was an aboriginal man of indeterminate age, playing a didj. He was naked apart from a loincloth, and his body was painted in white circles. Beside him stood a brown skinned woman wearing only a short skirt made from a spotted pelt, like a leopard or jaguar, playing a five stringed harp made of wood inlaid with gold. She was definitely not aboriginal. Seated on a nearby rock was another woman with pale skin, red hair, dressed in what looked like a skirt made from a reddish pelt. She was beating two sticks together. Another man sitting near her wore a bear skin as a cloak, and beat time on a small drum made from a skull. There were several others that I did not see clearly. None of them smelled like humans.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The wolf man switched back to human form <<Now change back yourselves.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It was easier going the other way, as if energy is required to maintain the image, and less for our normal form. <<Like energy states in atoms!>> nalini thought to me. <<There are many stable ones, all but the lowest one require energy to reach, and require energy to move out of that stable state as well.>> It made sense to me at the time.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I turned around and realized that paula, prospero and liz had followed us, prospero and liz holding our packs. They looked a little aprehensive. The wolfman began playing his flute, joining the music the others were playing. They played for several minutes, then as one accord all stopped.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The wolf man introduced us using the names he had given us, so i presume he had brought the others with us. The man with the didjeridu stood, walked around us almost glaring at us. He reached out, touched me. "Hah! You I shall teach. You will know how to find me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The dark skinned woman beside him touched nalini. "I shall be your mentor."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The red haired woman walked over to paula. "You will be my pupil."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The aborigine looked around at the others. "No one for the young girl?" He walked over to her, studied her intently. She stood quietly under his scrutiny. "You are of my people!" he exclaimed exultantly. "I claim you too." He threw his arms around her and hugged her briefly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He returned to his seat by the fire, looked us over. "So, in dreaming you will find us. Sometimes we will seek you out. You are on the path of knowledge, you have a long way to travel. Now, let us not detain you longer. You have things to do. Goodbye."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The wolfman gathered us with a wave of his hands, and lead us back to the hilltop, this time outside the stone circles. <<This is my place of power. In the future there may be occasions where you need a place of refuge. You will find it here. No doubt your mentors will show you other refuges. Now it is time for you to go.>> He turned to nalini and me. <<You two did very well. Do not forget what I showed you, do not forget what you did. There will be times with you will need such a skill.>>. He became a wolf, loped up the hill and into his place of power. His thought lingered <<Goodbye, and good hunting!>>. He faded out.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I shouldered out packs and started walking down the hill. "Let's get on our way. Whose turn is it to shift?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero volunteered "I think it's mine. Are you two okay?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula added "What was all that about? Do any of you guys know? Who were those strange people?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz commented "Danny, you remember some time back you asked me what I thought sorcerers looked like, and I said scarey old men and women? Well, those people look like that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini turned to talk. "Liz, why did you walk up the hill away from us like that? Getting separated from the rest of us could be dangerous. If the wolfman hadn't been friendly, it would have been dangerous."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, I know. I've been thinking about that. I really don't know, I just wanted to go up the hill. I'll try not to let it happen again, okay?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's okay. He probably summoned you anyway, probably there wasn't anything you could have done."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The blue grass had lightened, the hills had shifted and grown rocky teeth, a paved road ran before us. The flag stones were irregular crazy paving style, there were grooves from cart wheels, and the odd weed grew here and there. The road was wide enough for seven or eight of us to walk abreast.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Powerful sorcerers is right, but beyond that, neither nalini nor i have any idea who they are or what they want beyond what they said."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "Liz, what did he say to you before we arrived?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, nothing much, maybe something like "greetings girl, you are a long way from home", and I told him i was following you mob, and i had no idea where i was, and then he asked me if i was studying sorcery, and i was sort of telling him i'd started, and asking who he was, when you two arrived."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I wonder what they're going to teach us?" paula asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well" nalini replied "That was shape shifting. It's something imladril promised me she would teach us when we were ready, but she hinted that it might take years. Danny and I are aware of the basic principals, they are the same behind all sorcery, but we'd never gone beyond money. We never thought we could. It is something that is open to a lot of abuse if you think about it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, yeah!" paula replied. "Just think - you could change the way you look, commit any crime, and get away with it!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'd say that with sorcery you can commit crimes and get away with them anyway." I responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There are lots of shadows where sorcery IS a crime!" nalini added sardonically.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think we should discuss those people with imladril and durathror, see what they advise. We don't know what their hidden agenda is." I always assume people have a hidden agenda, I usually try to find out what that is.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We debated about the strange sorcerers for some time, stopping for lunch in a city cafe. The sun was shining redly in a pink sky. The breeze was chilly. We were walking through a paved outdoor mall, shops and cafes spread on both sides and down the middle. The patrons sat at pavement side tables, but in most cases there were large transparent blinds to keep the breezes out. We selected a more upmarket one that probably catered for tourists, this one had heaters installed on poles to keep patrons warm.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Most of the people wore heavy coats, had pale skin and almond shaped eyes. Most had dark hair, although some had really pale blond hair. Our odd looking clothes occasioned stares, nalini and liz felt that their dark skins also attracted attention. The stares weren't too bad though, we generally stop in places where people seem similar to ourselves. There are many places where people aren't quite human, we would stand out there as obvious aliens, so while we may pass through, we will not stop.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 However, the food was excellent, and out of the wind the seats were warm enough. We couldn't read the menu, so we had to get the waitress to tell us what was on. We placed our orders, the waitress went away.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz changed the topic from the sorcerers. "I've been wondering. People look at us funny sometimes, but no one seems to notice our weapons."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How do you know they're not just being polite?" prospero asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "People tend to see what they expect to see. Our guns aren't that obvious, even yours in its shoulder holster looks more like a piece of hiking equipment..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I still think we should get you girls less obvious holsters." I put in. "It's a bit of a detour today, but we might make a side trip once we get to Tarantia, get some more of these holsters."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The others nodded. Nalini continued "In civilized societies, people don't carry weapons, so they don't expect to see them. Those who do probably assume we're entitled to, or we're some sort of theatrical group. With these mail jerkins we look a little like some group that specializes in medieval pageants. Now that prospero has put his on his backpack, we don't look like we are actually wearing swords, just carrying them around. If a cop stops us, we'll deal with that then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "A gun is easy to conceal, as is a knife, but what practical use is a sword?" liz asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero chuckled. "Guns run out of bullets, swords don't. Ask nalini about that. Less advanced civilizations don't know what a gun is. Most of them can recognize a sword as a weapon. I think you'll find if we go to those sorts of places that people will recognize we are carrying weapons, but then so will many others."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And there are shadows where guns just don't work. The laws of physics are sufficiently different that the cartridge doesn't explode." i added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked puzzled. "Yeah, I think you said that before. I hear what you say, but I can't see why it should be that way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini countered "Why should the laws of physics be the same in each shadow? That's like asking for the land masses to be identical, or the skies to be identical, and so on." She smiled. "This isn't really an explanation, I don't think any of us know why shadows can have different physical laws, but that's just how it is. If the laws are different enough, your bodies life processes can't be sustained, and you die rapidly. We have to check out each shadow before we shift into it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But how do you see them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, could you explain sight to a blind person?" Liz shook her head. "Right now you are blind to the shadows. One day your sight will be opened, and you will know. There are no words in english, which is why we talk about seeing shadows. We don't really use our eyes, it's more like mental imagery, except that it isn't."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shook her head again. "You're doing it again, explaining round in circles."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not deliberately Liz."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, I've changed a bit, haven't I? From not wanting to be involved with sorcery, now I'm getting impatient."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I didn't want to get involved with sorcery either." prospero remarked "I always thought it was about mumbling incantations to demons, and that most of it didn't work. It wasn't until Amrik, paula and myself were captured and then rescued by danny and nalini that I realized that sorcery is real, and the other stuff is just magic.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Shadow walking is probably the most interesting and impressive part, but there's many other aspects as well. I saw that with durathror, atlendor and imladril. But why is it that we learn shadow walking before almost anything else?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled "It's probably my fault. Korum taught me shadow walking, and almost nothing else about sorcery. Imladril and durathror taught me other aspects of sorcery, but I am biased in favor of shadow walking. As you say, it's interesting, practical and so on.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Simpler and easier sorcery is telepathy, spells of illusion, and some other spells. Telepathy is a two edged sword, you really have to trust the other person, because it is very easy to broadcast more of your thoughts than you would say. That's the main basis behind the translation spell. You and paula should be able to set your own translation spell, but you've had far more practice at shadow walking.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Illusion is where you make something seem to be something else. Danny and I have set a simple illusion spell that is something like a poor relation to an invisibility spell. People see what they expect to see; our simple spell just builds on that so they don't notice just how strange we look. We could use illusion to make a bank note seem valid currency, but it would wear off later. By the way paula, illusion does not fool cameras and machinery, although you can create spells for that purpose. So if you used illusion to look like liz here, and then robbed a bank say, the security camera would still see you as you are.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There are other practical sorcery spells that work on enhancing or diminishing what is already there. I'm trying to think of an example. Opening locks, starting fires or putting them out, putting people to sleep so you can sneak past them. They vary in difficulty, but they are around that of shadow shifting, or maybe a little harder, or a little easier.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Harder spells are those that actually change matter. I mean shape shifting in all its forms: the money changing, what danny and I did earlier in that ring of stones, the instant healing that imladril did on prospero's arm some time back.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Harder again is spells that create something out of nothing. Korum told me that the beings from the primary shadow can create and destroy shadows. I can't vouch for that, but other examples would be to create food out of thin air, or to create money out of thin air."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The food arrived at this point. The discussion continued in fits and starts as we ate. Liz asked "What about rain making?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini shrugged. I answered "I guess it depends on what you have to start with. If there are big storm clouds, all you are doing is giving things a little push. If there's clear sky, then you'd be creating something out of nothing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What about when you produce food out of thin air? I've seen you do that at least a couple of times."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini sighed. "That's just fetching. It's like shadow shifting, you visualise what you want, except that instead of walking to where it is, you bring it to you. We do it when necessary, but we have reservations about it. We don't create it, we find it off in shadow somewhere. So if we bring that here, we've taken something that belongs to someone else. That's how danny and i see it. Korum sees it completely different, but then he and i disagreed on a lot of things."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There's other aspects too" I announced "Like seeing auras. You can tell a lot about a person when you can see their aura, and you can work on their feelings and thought processes. Nalini and I are starting to be able to see auras. I don't think it takes a lot of energy, but it does take practice, like anything else."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero observed "As I said, I used to think sorcery was mostly useless. Certainly the sorcerers I know of back in my home shadow cannot achieve much. But you two have stumbled onto sorcery that actually works. Now that makes me wonder about its potential for abuse, for committing crimes, and so on."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was nodding. "Even shadow walking could be used to commit perfect robberies and murders. Are there evil sorcerers out there?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm sure there are. I know that nalini and i are particular about who we teach - and that's just you three. We know we can trust you, imladril and durathror have vouched for you as well." I remarked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "We should also tell you that you should not teach anyone unless both imladril and durathror say that you should. And don't let anyone else know that you are sorcerers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula nodded "I'm sure the pentagon would love to get their hands on us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "I think you're thinking X-files and conspiracy theories. I'm sure the CIA and similar organizations would love to have their agents trained. It may be that there are shadows where that happens. I don't know. But I think that evil sorcerers have ambitions like anyone else, and they probably move on from petty robberies to much larger crimes. I'd love to think that the training process weeds out the bad guys, like my first karate teacher used to tell us, but that isn't true."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz had been sitting quietly, taking in all that we said. She observed "I've been thinking about everything we've been talking about today. Basically, God as i was taught in school, doesn't exist. Neither does the devil. When we die, we go into the world of dreaming, and later we are reborn. There are beings like gods, and ones like devils, but there is no heaven or hell, there is no punishment or rewards, we just keep on being reborn. Our desires themselves determine who we get reborn as. There's no justice. There is power that can be used or abused. What is the purpose of it all? Where is the meaning in all this? People go around doing their petty little things, is that so they don't feel the terror of existance, the knowledge that there is no purpose to their lives, that it's all empty?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I responded as best I could "'Vanity of vanities. It is all empty, and a chasing after the wind' Ecclesiastes. It's not quite as bleak as all that liz. Look within, it isn't emptiness you see, but the well of the world, and down below is the mind of god. In a sense, we are all children of god, we are all part of god. We are the eyes of the universe, we see the beauty, the terror, the mystery. Our desires do determine what happens, and where we go, but we can learn to modify our behaviour. We can go through our many lives never learning anything, always repeating the same behaviour patterns, making the same mistakes, wasting our lives, or we can learn from our mistakes, we can learn about the mysterious world out there, we can learn something about its shaping, its workings. Life is an art, it's your work of art. Hell exists, and mostly it's here on earth, but there are hellish places in the dreaming too, we'll take you visiting one day with imladril or durathror. Shakespeare said life was a stage, and we were players, but that isn't quite right, because we can change the script. In a sense life is a game, it has rules, and we agreed to abide by those rules when we came down here in the first place. So we play the game, and we do the best we can, because that is all we have. This is god looking back at his creations, experiencing the dreaming of this world. Life is a school, a journey. It is important that we enjoy the journey, enjoy the game. It doesn't have a point, a reason, and that's its point. It is, it is sufficient for itself. Dreaming in being, and being in dreaming. From one perspective, nothing matters, but at the same time it all matters. I am, I experience, I am aware, I can act, I can learn, I can remember, I can make a difference!" I ran out of words. I reached across the table, took her hand, and squeezed it. "We care about you liz, we love you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked across at me with big soulful eyes. She stared for what seemed like ages, then she blinked. "I could almost see what you were talking about danny. I almost understood." she looked thoughtful for a moment longer, then explained "I had a black period after i was raped, where i was depressed, and suicidal. I guess i felt that everything was pointless, god didn't care, or didn't exist, i was on my own and had bad luck, couldn't see how to change it. I would have said I grew out of it, but I was thinking about a lot of things, and i got stuck into a train of thought about there being no justce." she smiled. "That black mood comes back from time to time, but it goes away again just as quickly. Part of me understands what you were saying. I realise now that the universe isn't how they taught me in sunday school, but I don't yet understand how it is, I'm not even sure of what it is. But you and nalini have shown me that in some ways it is a lot closer to what the elders told me about the dreaming. I can understand about life being a bit like a game, but I prefer the idea that it's a work of art, my work of art. I'm doing my best, even if that isn't as good as I want. But I do want to learn what you can teach, I do want to learn what that crazy old aborigine said he'll teach me today. And hey, i love you guys too, okay?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, no artist is ever as good as they would like to be, it goes with the territory." I squeezed her hand again.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini put her hand on top of mine, we spoke together. "We're proud of you liz." Paula was looking all emotional, as if she were thinking about crying. I let go of liz's hand. "That includes the two of you, paula and prospero, we're proud of you as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero had the final word. "You're quite a philosopher danny. I understood part of what you said, but bits of it made no sense. Unlike the rest of you, I don't have a christian world view to unlearn. The universe is different from what i thought, but I can see that what i thought does fit in with what I'm learning. It all seems to come back to responsibility coupled with knowledge. We all have to learn to take responsibility for our lives, we have to learn more about this mysterious world of ours. We're all on that path, the path with a heart as you call it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ###}}