{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Cambria-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi284\ri-597\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32\b1\i0 Chapter}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  3}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After lunch, Prospero took us through a succession of city and town streets. Sometimes the buildings were modern skyscrapers, sometimes modern looking but smaller, ten or fifteen apartment blocks with parkland and once river views, sometimes they were smaller four to six storey whitewashed brick or stone buildings, but by gradual shifts they became smaller, more historical.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula took over, and lead us through suburbs that varied from modern to turn of the century. A bank of clouds began to build up on the horizon, growing bigger with each shift. Soon we were walking along a gravel road past small red brick houses, the sky leaden and brooding. There was a growing sense of danger.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula finally asked "There seems to be a storm ahead, and it's in all the shadows I want to go through. What do you want me to do?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was about to make a suggestion, nalini shushed me. "Paula, right now you are the shadow shifter. What do you suggest?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, normally i'd avoid a storm, but that means going around. This one looks like it covers a lot of shadows, so it'll be a big detour."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What do you think prospero?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, I don't mind getting wet, that happens often enough back home on horseback, but I think I would prefer to make a detour. The only thing is, the storm seems to be in such a large number of shadows."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "Paula, stay close to the edge of the storm, but don't take us into it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded and added "Like you said, it's a big storm. If we don't go around, it gets fairly ferocious."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, but what's so bad about storms? We'll just get wet won't we?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula" i said quietly "Stop and feel the shadows ahead. Can you feel the danger?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "It's so strong it's screaming."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Both paula and prospero stood still, eyes closed. "How can a storm  be that dangerous?" he asked eventually.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Experience is often worth a thousand explanations. I thought a question to nalini, she agreed. "Okay, take us into the storm, but be ready to jump back."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The first shift was into driving rain and deafening thunder. The wind was incredibly strong, almost blowing us over. With the second shift the rain and wind were even stronger, we clung to each other to avoid being pushed over, we were drenched to the skin in seconds; in the distance was a huge black swirl, stretching from the ground into the sky, making its way lazily through part of the town, smashing buildings into matchwood. The noise was somewhere between railway shunting yards and a war zone during shelling. We could not make ourselves heard over the the sound.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula took us away, and in two more shifts we were back in dry weather. I commented quietly to prospero "There are hundreds of shadows experiencing variations of that tornado. There could be thousands of people dying because of it, and hundreds of times as many being made homeless."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He replied "I have heard of tornados, but we do not have them back home. I never thought a storm could be that bad."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz complained sarcastically "A little rain you said! I'm soaked to the skin!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were standing on a suburban street, the sun peeping through clouds, glimpses of pale pink sky here and there, and dripping water onto the dry pavement. Nalini said "Gather round, danny and I will try a little sorcery to dry us out."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We all held hands, nalini and i linked minds and together thought our way through the spell. Spells can be thought of as recipes or rituals, they serve to focus the will on the purpose. With this one, we were inventing it as we went along. I felt the small surge of power swirl through all of us. Within seconds I was dry. I commented to nalini "We should do some more work on spells, I think we're deficient in that area."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I agree, but I don't think of spells until I need to do something I can't achieve by normal means. It's a bit hard to come by a book of decent practical spells to get ideas."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "Do you need working spells, or just the ideas?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ideas only. We could talk to durathror about working spells he knows, but from what he has said, he improvises, just like we do."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Bur of course he has had twelve hundred years of improvising, and has quite a repertoire built up. We're starting with nothing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, there are several fantasy role playing games that have books of spells. I've got no idea whether they'll work, but they should give you some ideas."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We looked at each other. "It's worth a try. Where do we find books like that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Games shops. I'll show you one my brother goes to when we get back to Brisbane if you like."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We spent some time skirting the storm, which was good practice for both paula and prospero. You can't just navigate toward your destination, but you have to keep it in focus and move around the blocking shadows.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We found ourselves crossing many shadows that resembled european countryside, although the sky colors varied, as did vegetation. There were fields of young corn, fields of young wheat, fields of other grains we could not identify, fields with sheep or cattle grazing, little villages dotted here and there along gravel or dirt tracks. Flowers bloomed in the hedgerows and ditches. We walked variations on a country lane, mostly rutted dirt covered with animal dung.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We crossed a single railway line, separated from the fields by little more than a raised embankment. It seemed to be early morning in late spring. The sky was pink, the sun liquid gold, the breeze cool.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero complained "All the shadows look the same! Except for those ones over there where the storm is raging."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "There is an infinite number of shadows, so chances are that many of them will be similar. Durathror told me one that if one of korum's kin were living in a shadow, then his presence would create many similar shadows. I never asked korum about it, so i don't know if that is correct. It does seem unusual though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We contined down the lane toward a field of young corn, and a village behind. There was a sense of danger forming, both from our current shadow, and from the others. We stopped by the cornfield to rest, and discuss whether we should backtrack. The only thing was that the shadows we'd just been through were also signalling danger.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We didn't have to wait that long to find out what was happening. Across the fields rode two armies, looking as if they intended to converge on the flat area near us. There were similar armies in the shadows around us. We trusted to nalini's intuition, selected one shadow, and stayed there. We settled ourselves under a spreading beach tree to one side of the cornfield, the village perhaps two hundred meters behind us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "The village will not necessarily be safe, the victors could well rape and pillage, and the fighting could easily spill over."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We'll keep a close eye on things, and maybe shift from shadow to shadow as the situation changes. If the fighting comes our way, we're leaving immediately." I was adamant about this.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula opined "I think the storm might be safer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Except that it's fairly close. The other nearby shadows don't seem to be capable of supporting life." I countered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero took out his binoculars while I was speaking.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "Do you boys have some hankering to watch the battle instead of brave the storm?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shrugged. "I guess I'm curious, but the storm might be safer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero said "I have an interest in the tactics the opposing generals use. The ground is quite open out there, but if the situation looks dangerous, i agree we should retreat to the storm."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz said simply "I've never seen a battle. Do they have guns, or is this going to be knights in armor?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini snorted "Battles aren't pretty, as the rest of us know. Here at least is dry, if we stay out of the battle we could be safer than in the storm."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The armies were still distant, so we had to rely on prospero's binoculars. There were lines of horsemen in iron hats and breastplates, one side seemed utilitarian and plain, but practical, the otherside more gaudy and less practical. Behind the horsemen came waves of infantry armed with pikes. There was a group that carried weapons that looked like matchlock muskets.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "They seem oddly equipped. They posess armor, but only on the chest and thighs, yet it seems to be well made. There is no evidence of chain mail, they use iron plate. I expect that both of them well send detachments this way in a flanking manouver, the fighting could well erupt behind us if they meet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "I think they are somewhere from the sixteenth to the seventeenth centuries. The advent of firearms made armor largely obsolete."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was thinking that the combatants looked vaguely familiar. "They look a little like cavaliers and roundheads to me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula shrugged. Liz borrowed the binoculars, then commented "We studied that in school. I was always interested in history." she was quiet for a minute. "They do look like pictures of them, don't they? One lot look like Cromwell's dragoons."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was mystified, nalini only marginally less so. Liz and i explained about the English civil war, where Cromwell deposed King Charles the first. Nalini commented "I know of the civil war in your shadow, but only what danny mentioned some time back. We never had a civil war in my home shadow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "But that was hundreds of years ago in our shadow, so how could it be happening now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This probably has little to do with the english civil war. But don't forget that shadows run time at different rates. We are quite far from our home shadows right now." nalini explained.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 While we waited, the two commanders formed up their lines, and the battle began. The side we thought of as the roundheads set a line of pikemen, put their musket men into three lines behind the pikemen, and their cavalry off to the far side.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The other side set a double line of pikemen, but bunched their musketmen behind the pikemen at the edge closest to us. They seemed to have more mounted men and fewer men on foot; their cavalry was spread out behind the lines of pikemen.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "Both have spread their pikemen too thin. They should have a double line to hold the cavalry back. But what do you make of their men with rifles?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They aren't rifles as far as i can tell, but muskets, smoothe bore barrels that aren't accurate, single shot, and must be loaded from the muzzle with powder and then shot. That takes time, probably as slow as a cross bow..." I replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then bunching them makes sense. Spreading crossbow men thinly is a mistake, they have little effect because of the time between shots. But why three lines?" prospero interrupted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah... it's just occurred to me. When you bunch them, they all fire as soon as they reload, in dribs and drabs?" Prospero nodded. "So, form them into three lines, the front rank all fire on command. Immediately the front rank retires to the rear to reload, the second rank advances, and fires on command. Then they retire to the rear, the third rank advances and fires on command. By this time the original first rank should have reloaded, and returns to the front. You can keep this up for as long as you have shot and powder."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was thinking out loud. "In my home shadow, the first volley from crossbow men is devestating, but after that they take differing times to reload, and their effectiveness goes down. If they are busy reloading they are easy prey to cavalry. But the process you describe would mean that each volley is as effective as the first one. Any cavalry charge could be cut down. So the line of pikemen can be thinner because fewer cavalry will reach their line."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We looked again at the battle lines. I commented "Guns make cavalry obsolete. Once you get rifles such as we have back home, you don't even need three lines. The cavalry charge is suicide. I think the roundheads are going to win. Prospero, in your shadow, how does a battle start? when would the cavalry charge?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Normally there would be an exchange of arrows, several volleys, which can decimate the front ranks. Then the cavalry charge, and fight it out in the middle. After a time one side gains the upper hand, and chases the defeated from the field. Of course, this is simplifying very much, but in my shadow, the mounted man, wearing armor, is more effective than the foot soldiers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Look!" liz exclaimed, pointing. Puffs of white smoke appeared in the ranks of the cavaliers' musketmen, the sound reaching us as liz exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a volley from the other side in reply, and we watched as precision changing of ranks occurred. "Just as you predicted" prospero enthused.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 More volleys rang out, raggedly on the part of the cavaliers, and in time from the roundheads. They seemed to be very slow about returning fire. Prospero was studying the lines with his binoculars. "Very few casualties. I expect they are too far apart for the guns to be effective."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Their armor might be bullet proof as well. It looks heavy enough."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was doubting. "Knowing the power of my gun, I also know that any iron armor would have to be very thick and very heavy to withstand a bullet. I've tested it back home. The armorers could not make armor thick enough to stop my bullets."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But yours are high velocity nickel jacketed bullets." nalini replied, beating me. "That makes them very good at piercing armor. Those guns out there would be firing lead balls. They will still make a mess if they hit you, but a quarter of an inch of iron should stop them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero looked horrified "Nalini! A quarter of an inch of plate iron is exceedingly heavy. A man could not walk in such a suit of armor, let alone fight."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's probably why they wear breastplates, thigh pads and helmets only. There's nothing on their arms or backs, and very little on their legs."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded as he considered this. "Hmmm... that would change things then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nothing much happened for a time, then the cavalier pikemen advanced, under cover of continuous if ragged fire from their musketmen. It seemed the roundheads were content to stay where they were. Every now and then they would return a volley.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "I would have expected the cavalry to charge by now, but I suspect the commanders believe they would be cut to ribbons. How does the cavalry get past the muskets?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shook my head. "I've been wondering about that myself. I've a feeling they are kept in reserve until the front ranks have been cut to pieces, then they ride in to mop up."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "I think you're thinking of the nineteenth century, when cannons played more of a role. I think that here the cavalry is expected to charge to open up the opposing lines. That is why the commander is moving his front line closer. He knows if he charges across that distance, his cavalry will be cut to ribbons." She looked at prospero, then back to me. "I agree with you boys, the cavaliers have lost, their commander already knows it. What he probably doesn't realise is that should the roundhead infantry advance on rapid fire, they would walk all over the cavaliers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was inclined to agree with her. Prospero looked doubtful. "Should they advance, that is the correct time to charge....Um... I suppose if the fire were rapid enough, and the ranks could keep their discipline?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Have you timed how long it takes them to reload?" Nalini asked. "The cavaliers are managing about twenty seconds, but many of them take longer. The roundheads i've timed at about fifteen seconds. Given they are in three ranks, that would be fairly steady rapid fire wouldn't you say? If they advance in four ranks it would be even more rapid again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They don't have to charge the other side, just move forward gradually, clearing the field before them." I commented. "I wonder if their commander is aware of it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded "I suppose, if you advanced each rank, fired, then advanced another rank, it would be slow, but at that rate of fire they would certainly clear the field. Hmmm.... if the cavalier commander charges, he loses, if he stays where he is, he loses. Now if he could form his musket men into three ranks and advance them, or perhaps dig a defensive bank, then his line could hold."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He thought about things for a while, and then added "If I were the king's commander, I would bring my cavalry around to this side, so they can charge cromwell's line furthest from his cavalry. He must also move his musket men to the other side to fire on the other cavalry, and this must be done without the other side realizing, or they will reinforce this end."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We sat and waited. In the shadows around us, battle was already raging, with soldiers charging through the cornfields around us. I kept a watchful eye on the surrounding shadows, keeping one of the less storm wracked ones in mind for a quick escape. We also kept out eyes open for any flanking movement, which prospero claimed would be happening as we sat and watched. However, all we did notice was several peasant farmers in smocks who stood on the other side of the cornfield, pitchforks and axes in hand, and eyed us warily. They were of varying ages, some grey haired, some younger. All had that weather beaten look.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After a time, two of them crouched low, and tried to come up behind us. Realizing they were seen, the elder one spoke "'ere, 'oo be you?" The language was archaic english, heavily accented. He was lined and grey, with teeth missing. The other looked to be his son.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I replied slowly "We are travelers, trying to avoid the fighting out there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They appeared to ruminate on this before the elder spoke again. "Be rum biznez, that. Not nat'rel loik."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The others came over, stood behind the speaker. Some stared open mouthed at nalini and liz. All of them had that family look, I guess you expect that in a village.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "Do you know which side is which?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The spokesman looked into the distance for a moment, then replied slowly "One be for king, god bless 'im, t'other be for cromwell..." he hawked and spat. "Oi know nowt else 'bout 'em."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One of the younger ones asked "Think 'ee who'm win?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero gestured "Would those be cromwell's men?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a general staring into the distance, some half finished sentences like "That be flag" "them 'as crab" before the elder man assented. The younger speaker added "'em both be flyin' England's flag, but yon be flag o' parl-ee-ment" he said is slowly as if he'd only recently learned the word.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero replied "Sadly, the king's soldiers are lacking equipment. If they charge cromwell's men, his guns will cut them to ribbons. They have more horse, if they can entice cromwell to charge, then they could win."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were some noises as this sank in, then the younger asked "Be'e lord? 'ee knows summat o' battles, an' speak proper loik. Be no' vrom round 'ere."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled. "No, we are from the colonies. We are loyal to the king, though there is little help we can offer right now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked the key question "I am from India, I know little of cromwell. Could you good people explain about him? What does he want, and why has he turned on his king?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Someone at the back anounced "Oi tole 'ee zo! They's vrom owa indian colony. That be woi she be zo dark!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled "Correct my good man. Now, would you be so good as to explain about cromwell?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They did not know much about the politics, but they were full of greivances about cromwell; about merchants fencing in the commons so they could not graze their cattle; about cromwell's soldiers stealing their pigs, cattle and chickens; how the local squire supported cromwell, and was trying to drive them off the farms they had worked for untold generations; that already many of their neighbouring villages had had their tennant farmers thrown into the street, and a few hired hands installed to work the fields, while the disposessed were left to starve, or send their children to work in dark dangerous factories; the prices of everything had gone up while they had little money; the list went on.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Two women came out, chasing children. One ran up to liz, looked at her hand, then touched it with a look of wonder on its face. She smiled at the child, patted its head. "No, the color doesn't come off."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The child ran back to its mother again, hiding behind her skirts, while the conversation went on. We must have talked for almost half an hour. We answered a few questions in return, but we let prospero make most of the answers as if we were all from his home shadow.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 During this conversation the progress of the battle changed. The commander of the king's forces withdrew many of his cavalry and congregated them in an orchard near our cornfield. We missed this, so presumably the opposing side did also. The company of musketeers moved away from us toward the center of the line. At this point the cavalry hiding in the orchard charged, crossing the field near our position, and aiming at the nearer end of cromwell's line, where there were fewer musketeers. The king's musketeers started a covering fire directed toward cromwells heavy cavalry. Cromwell's musketeers put up a disciplined display, shooting volley after volley at the cavalry, with devestating effect.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The shots were coming our way. The peasants fled, we decided to move to a safer position. On the side of the cornfield closer to the village was a ditch about a meter deep by two meters wide, and behind that a dry stone wall perhaps a meter and a bit high. As I scrambled over the wall I remember noting several hens scratching around in the bottom of the ditch, oblivious to us. Several of the villagers were hunkered behind the wall, they grinned at us as we hid with them. The women and children had vanished.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Much of the action was hidden by the backs of the charging horsemen, but prospero still kept up a commentary. "Yes, a masterful stroke that, I do not think cromwell's commander expected that." As the charge closed with the opposing line, the muskets became more accurate. Men and horses began to drop like flies. "By mitra, cromwell's muskets are devastating! I must remember those tactics for our crossbow men. It will be touch and go whether enough of those brave men survive to breech the line."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 About half the cavalry did reach the line of footsoldiers, and began cutting them to ribbons. Cromwell's cavalry performed a counter charge, but they were facing the massed company of musketeers, and a number were killed. However, it did look as if their armor stopped the bullets from the primitive muskets, because the casualty rate was much lower. The remaining part of the king's cavalry charged into the dragoons from the side, and after that everything degenerated into a free for all. The foot soldiers advanced into the melee using pikes and swords.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "When it gets to this point, there is often little a commander can do to influence the outcome. Extra cavalry in reserve is handy, but at this stage a charge would kill your own men as well. It comes down to the number of your troops, their bravery and their training, plus how a commander has positioned them going into the fight."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini made a face. "I've seen a few battles, especially the aftermath. I think it's a tragic waste of life."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded "Yes, many brave man are dying right now. Their leaders should not allowed the situation to come to this."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini snorted "Hah! The soldiers know what they're risking. The horses don't, and that it criminal."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero looked put out, and kept quiet.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz commented "I find it hard to believe this is real. I feel I should be sitting here with a bucket of popcorn."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula nodded. "I know what is going on out there, I've even been in one, but from here it seems like a movie."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero raised his eyebrows at this, but said nothing. Nalini and i agreed with paula and liz - sitting behind the wall watching the battle was to remove much of its reality. It did seem like a re-enactment or movie.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The battle lasted a couple of hours. The peasants invited us to join them for a meal, we declined politely. We fetched food for ourselves. I wanted to move on, but almost every shadow we could move into featured the battle, and in many the battle had run through the village and beyond. It was still likely to do so here.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Battles are not really pretty sights. Two hours after the melee commenced, it was obvious to us that there were far fewer of the king's men than before. The fighting degenerated into a general rout of the king's troops, with cromwell's men in hot persuit.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was still watching the progress through his binoculars. He was suddenly incensed. "They are killing their prisoners! The king's men are surrendering, once they are disarmed cromwell's soldiers are killing them! That's disgusting!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "It may be the norm in this shadow. Persue the losers and kill them. There are several groups headed this way. We should move."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The peasants volunteered that there was a big royalist stronghold a few miles north in the town of "yark" Prospero turned to us and said "That is to where many of the king's soldiers will be retreating, and probably that is where they came from. Heading south might be safer, with fewer people."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's a detour though." nalini thought for a minute. "We've wasted enough time here, let's take a detour."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We took our farewells of the peasants, and headed through the village along the road south. Liz asked "I hope they'll be okay."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "There is little we can do for them if they won't be all right. If we hadn't been here they would take their chances."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We passed the last of the houses, and were passing another cornfield. five dragoons on horseback were riding through the field, trampling the young corn, and heading toward the village. Their leader hailed us. "Identify yourselves!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I called back "Do we look like king's men? We are simple travelers, heading south. Let us pass." Nalini and i exerted our wills on them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They glowered at us. "Miserable sinners by the look of ye! Pass on." They rode on into the village, laughing amongst themselves.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Out beyond the cornfield, the butchery was continuing. Hundreds of horses lay dead or dying, there were probably several thousand humans in similar condition. Shots could still be heard, but most of the noises were screams of the injured. The roundhead soldiers were methodically going over the field, killing their injured opponents, loading their own injured onto carts. The dragoons were spreading out, riding after their fleeing enemies, killing them if they caught them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stopped to look. Nalini remarked "Behold the folly of humans. We may use different weapons, but the results are still the same. It's times like this I'm embarrassed to be human."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero replied "I have always tried to resolve conflicts without resorting to violence. I agree with you nalini, violence is the last resort of the incompetent, but sometimes nothing else works."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini managed a faint smile. "We know. Danny and I have killed quite a few people because we couldn't find a better way to stop them from trying to kill us. Neither of us will be soldiers, although we have been in war zones before. We leave the soldiers to their games, but we draw the line when they start hurting civilians."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "I took my first gun from a sniper who was in a tall building shooting civilians."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What did you do to him?" liz asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I came in behind him and threw him out the window. He'd killed several women and children before I could get to him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded "There is no excuse for acts of terrorism." He gestured out onto the battlefield. "You may regard this as pretty barbaric, but the villagers didn't seem to think they were in danger of being raped or massacered. I've read things about your modern wars where the victorious soldiers rape, loot and murder the civilians, while the civilians can do little in return. Here at least, the villagers can kill the soldiers with their pitchforks, axes and pruninghooks."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz borrowed prospero's binoculars, took a good look at the carnage from the safety of the road. "I feel sick looking at that. I don't want to go any closer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero took the binoculars back, remarking "Sword wounds may be gastly, but someone has to walk up and do that. A soldier always has a chance with swords. Your modern bombs, land mines and exploding shells are far worse, and you have little chance of avoiding them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i said together "We don't condone any of that. But human nature is to continue to develop weapons to maim and kill."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think we should get a move on!" paula pointed across the field. Two cavaliers were riding almost directly toward us, persued by a number of mounted dragoons.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 However, we'd let go our link with safe shadows, there wasn't really time to re-establish that. We'd have to deal with this crisis as it unfolded. There was barely time to drop our packs.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One of the cavaliers was crouched down in the saddle, his helmet gone, his long blond hair streaming behind him. The other carried the army's flag or standard, it served to make them stand out. They galloped into the cornfield and came to the rock wall at the other end, very near where we were standing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The horse with the standard balked at the jump, its hapless rider sailed over the fence to land with a thud on the hard ground only meters from us. He didn't move. The other horse cleared the jump, but stumbled as it landed, throwing its rider and turning a quite spectacular cart wheel. It got to its feet, shook itself, and trotted away. Its rider got gingerly to his feet, limping and massaging his left arm.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini knelt to the fallen rider, removed his helmet and began checking his limbs. The fallen man was middle aged, balding, fairly tall. The other rider cursed in some gutteral language. He looked at us, the rapidly approaching riders, and seemed to realise that he wasn't going anywhere. He drew his sword and limped over to us. "Is he alive?" His english had a foreign accent. His face was young, clean shaven.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini got to her feet. "He's breathing, but unconscious. I don't think anything is broken, but we won't know for sure until he wakens."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The persuing dragoons arrived at this point. The leading riders tried to jump their mounts over the wall; one balked, five jumped, but two of them stumbled. The others reined in on the other side of the wall. Several dismounted and began clambouring over the wall.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The cavalier called out loudly "I am unhorsed. It seems I must surrender."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The leader of the dragoons was a man with a black moustache, sitting on his horse to the rear of the group. "No prisoners!" he called out. "Kill them all!" He drew a single shot pistol from his belt.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I wondered briefly about going for my own gun, but a gun isn't a lot of use in hand to hand combat unless you can put some distance between you and your attackers. We were effectively surrounded by dragoons, who attacked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero shouted "Barbarians! You would kill civilians and soldiers who surrender? You give butchers a bad name!" As he said this, he blocked his attacker's sword with his arm, caught his boot with his other hand, and tipped him from his horse. He ducked under the horse, drawing his sword as he emerged.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 By now I was too busy to notice too much about prospero. There was a single gunshot, the dull heavy sound of their black powder. My sword was in my hand, I took the hand off the nearest attacker, and the head off a second on my back swing. Their heavy armor made them slow. The cavalier stabbed the man prospero had unhorsed, swung round to face another attacker. Prospero was fighting two and running rings around both of them. Nalini sliced the throat of another dragoon, and suddenly there were very few attackers left standing. More were clambouring over the wall, when gunshots rang out, sharper barks of our thirty eight specials, firing steadily. The dragoons by the walls began to fall.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I sliced the head off my attacker, turned to see nalini wiping her sword on a dead dragoon's cloak, prospero dance his sword past his attacker's guard to stab into the throat. The cavalier was looking around wildly. A little to our left paula and liz were standing, each with a pistol held in a two handed grip, and still firing at the three remaining dragoons, all in the process of turning their horses around in preparation to flee. One by one they fell from their horses. The whole fight had probably lasted no more than fifteen seconds, during which eighteen dragoons had died.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I wiped my sword, checked with nalini that we were both unharmed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula called out "Hey! Annie Oakleigh eat yer heart out!" She removed the magazine from the gun, ejected the unfired cartridge into her hand, then pulled the trigger to release the hammer cock.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good shooting both of you!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She worked the slide again to ensure the gun was empty, released the hammer cock again, and slid a fresh magazine home, and holstered the gun.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The cavalier walked back to join the rest of us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz was still standing, gun in hand, staring with a very strange expression.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz! You okay?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She looked right through me, then suddenly shook her head. Her hands were shaking, as were her legs.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, disarm your gun!" I was walking over to her, but paula put her hand on liz, took the gun from her unprotesting fingers.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, you okay?" I reached her, put my arm on her shoulder. Suddenly she buried her face in my shoulder, sobbing. I stroked her back, letting her cry. Paula walked away to join prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The cavalier was thanking us for rescuing him. "I really tort i vass dead! I cannot belief we kilt all the dragoonss." His accent sounded germanic.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz took out a hankie, blew her nose. I gave her a squeeze, said "We're proud of you. Ya dun well!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sorry, I don't know why I went like that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's just reaction."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But I shouldn't go to pieces. None of you have!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I kissed her cheek. "Hey, there's a first time for everything. You didn't go to pieces during the fighting. It's okay to cry after." I led her back to the others.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Both paula and nalini were solitous for her. "How're you feeling now?" Nalini gave her a hug.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "A bit shakey, I'll get over it. How come you guys aren't like that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ya wanna bet? My knees are knocking! I'm just pretending it doesn't affect me." paula responded. "We saved the day though. They'd have all been in big trouble if it wasn't for us!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "Danny and I were physically active, that tends to burn up the chemicals that make you shake. Plus we don't get rattled much these days, our bodies have learned to be serene in the face of danger."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah liz, Nalini and I have done years of martial arts training, mind training and so on. It helps, but we still get the shakes sometimes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz made a wan smile. "Jeez, how many did we kill? Ten or twelve? I never ever thought i'd kill someone!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The cavalier spoke. "I count eleven shot, eight killed by sword. I find that hard to believe myself. The girl is correct, but for your guns, we might well have all died. I have not seen their like before." He was watching paula reload her nearly empty magazine. "Can I see one?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She handed him a cartridge "I'm paula by the way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "My appologies, I am forgeting myself." He drew himself up. "I am Prince Rupert of the Rhine. I was the commander of the king's forces. I take it you are all royalists?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am Duke Prospero of Poitain. The lady paula is my betrothed. She is also the sister to Danny, who is the earl of Bendora. This is his wife nalini, who is a princess from the royal house of Delhi in India. That is her cousine the lady Elizabeth. We are passing through, trying to avoid notice."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The prince inclined his head with each introduction, saying either "My lord" or "My lady" I wasn't sure whether he believed us, because we had no retinue.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How fortunate to meet so many nobles travelling incognito, who also happen to be such excellent fighters. Is Poitain in France?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, Aquilonia, much further east, on the other side of India, but further north."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "You too are a long way from home, a Rhineland prince fighting in England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The king is my uncle. It is my duty." He held up the cartridge paula had given him. "How does this work?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula gave him a quick rundown on how a cartridge was constructed. Prospero added "We use cordite, but black powder will work almost as well. You will need fulminate of mercury i think it is called as primer. These particular cartridges are designed for these guns, they reload automatically from a magazine." he indicated the one paule was reloading. "The mechanism is complex, and can jam. You need a very good gunsmith, better than you currently have. Try for something simpler, where you work a bolt..." he mimicked using a bolt action weapon ".. by hand to load each round. You can still achieve quite rapid fire, certainly much faster than your muzzle loading muskets, even if you do arrange them in three lines."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert nodded. "You saw the battle? I had not thought to do that with the muskets."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes. You had more horse, by rights you should have won. But their use of muskets cut your charge to ribbons. We were discussing that earlier, before you charged, saying that you were between the rock and a hard place. To charge their guns would be suicide, but they could advance in ranks, firing, and clear the field before them if you did not charge." Prospero replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini said to the rest of us "I think we should be getting along. We don't want to become embroiled in this conflict any more than we are." She bent to check the fallen soldier, who was groaning and jerking. "He's coming round. Prince Rupert, if your man is unfit to ride, I suggest you strip him of his armor and leave him in the village. It is important that you escape."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded. "There are spare horses here. If we dress as dragoons we should escape capture easily. I thank you for your help. But for you I would be dead. It is a shame we will be unable to make better acquaintances." He held up the cartridge again. "May I keep this?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You may. I wish you luck in your endeavours."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero turned and asked "Are we just going to leave like that? There is a civil war going on here. We can make a difference surely!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Five of us?" Nalini asked. "Prospero, would you have us charge against cromwell's forces, guns blazing? We would die swiftly. We already have made a big difference, for we saved prince rupert's life. He is the army's leader. You don't have your army here. We are on a mission for your king. We should be on our way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero made a wry smile. "I suppose you are right my lady. But I believe I could make a difference. I have commanded king Amrik's armies in the field, I ... " he paused "But I would prefer to resolve this conflict without further bloodshed. But to do that I must talk long with prince rupert about why it has come to this in the first place."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "Prince rupert, why were they trying to kill you? I thought they were supposed to take prisoners."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So they should my lady, but parliament has deposed the king, and claims their actions legal. When the army was raised against cromwell, parliament decried that as treason, and declared king charles, myself and all his supporters outlaws to be killed on sight."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz started "But that's not how it's supposed to happen..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "My lady?" prince rupert enquired.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "My cousin is a seer. She forsaw this conflict, but the details are somewhat different from her vision."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, I thought parliament just deposed the king, but later during the civil war he gets arrested. He escapes, and raises a second army in France, and this time when he is captured he is sentenced to death for treason. Least that's how I remember it. Prince rupert wasn't killed, but lived out his days with plenty of grand children. But this is different."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince rupert's man sat up at this point. Nalini checked him out, reassured him "I don't think anything is broken. But you might have a head ache for a few days."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Arr lady, moi 'ead 'urts zummat shockin'. I think i'm gonna be sick." He leaned over and vomited. We all moved back.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini looked at rupert. "I don't think he'll be up to travelling for a day or so. In a smock he'd pass for a local with that accent. I suggest you leave him, and you should remove your armor as well, and borrow a tunic from one of these dragoons."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That might be wise." He began doffing his armor.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini summoned a cup, poured water into it, and gave it to the soldier, who rinsed his mouth out, then drank some. Prince rupert and he had a discussion about what should happen next. Finally prince rupert said "Will, I am reluctant to leave you, but if I stay with you, we will both be captured."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ye'll be killed yer mean, yer highness. I'm vrom yark, oi've kin roon' these parts. Save yersel', ye'll do the king no favor boi gettin' killed" Will responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'll do myself no favor either. Well, let's get rid of this armor, and we'll help you to the villge."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "Where will you go, prince rupert?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He shook his head. "York is for the king, but that was the flower of our army. The roundheads will take it on the morrow, there is no comfort to be had by travelling there...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz interrupted "This must be marston moor! But york isn't supposed to fall. The king's army was defeated, but that was all. They retreated and continued to fight."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Will confirmed "Oi, this be marsden. Cromwell has threatened to sack york if we do not hand the king over to him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini interrupted "Liz, your vision isn't always correct with regard to details." She turned to rupert "Is the king in york? They will likely capture him?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert nodded. "The king is likely fleeing the city right now, for parts further north. But as an outlaw with a price on his head, he dare not go into scotland, for the money loving scots would sell him to cromwell."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The more we heard, the more it seemed we should do something. Nalini and i were hoping to leave as soon as will and prince rupert headed for the village, but prospero insisted on helping prince rupert support the injured man.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini turned to the rest of us. "Prospero wants to help. I don't know how to make him leave. What do the rest of you want?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula commented "He gets like that sometimes. Can we do something that doesn't put all of us in danger?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We waited for liz. Finally she said "I thought this was going to be a holiday. If you told me before, I would've stayed at home. Now, I dunno. We are involved, I think we should help prince rupert somehow. I remember from my history that the king and his nobles weren't all that good, but cromwell and his puritans were even worse. The poor thought they'd be better off under cromwell, eventually they had a restoration with king charles the second."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini looked at me. I smiled at her. "Sweetheart, I know you'd like to help rupert, otherwise you'd never have stayed this long. It's like imladril said back when you were teaching me shadow shifting. 'Sometimes the workings of power will throw a particular shadow across your path, and there will be no way you can avoid it. When that happens, you will need to use your powers to help that place.' Or something like that. If we think in terms of armies, we can't make much difference. We have different powers. I'm not suggesting for a moment that we sneak through shadow and assassinate cromwell, but I think prospero is on the right track. Somehow we have to get all the interested parties together and reach a diplomatic solution."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini sighed. "Yes love, in my heart I think we should try to help. It may be this is mainly for prospero, after all, he is a diplomat. If it were just you and i, no problem. But i don't want to drag paula and liz into this, when there is a chance they could be killed or injured." She turned to the others. "This is your chance. If either of you say no, we go, if necessarily leaving prospero here. You saw what happened. Getting further involved could get you killed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked at paula, they both nodded in unison. Liz sighed "We stay. I've always felt my life lacked purpose, that i've never really amounted to much. If we can help here, I'll feel i've done something good."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula added "I've got used to the idea of dying. When it's time to go, I'll go. Until then, I'll use my powers to help others."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini nodded. "All right, let's go join prospero and rupert. Let's have a discussion about what we can achieve, but not here, it's too dangerous." She turned to paula. "Could you and liz round up some horses? We'll need six, and don't forget to remove any insignia."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were more dragoons in the distance heading toward the village, some from the direction in which the king's army had fled, and others far south down the road we had been walking. There were several rolling hills in between, they were heading down on the furthest visible hill.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We entered the village again, a peasant woman popped her head out and beckoned us to her house. We walked up three steps and ducked under the low doorway into a wide corridor with three rooms leading off it. Shelving ran the length of the corridor, holding ceramic storage containers, baskets of carrots, and other vegetables, eggs and other produce. Dried herbs hung in bunches from hooks, some farm implements were in one corner, and there was a bench that looked like someone did leather work using it. There were several pairs of dirty shoes by the door. Several villagers were crowded in there along with prospero, rupert and will. Will was dressed in a simple smock and legging like the other peasants, sitting on a chair. He had a tankard of ale beside him. He still looked bad, but he seemed in better spirits.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero turned as we came in. "It seems the villagers know will's family, they will take good care of him. I suppose we must go now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There are more dragoons headed toward the village. If they find prince rupert, everyone is in danger. Me must leave now. Prince rupert as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They put their boots back on, said brief farewells, and then we all left the house. According to our shadow shifting senses we weren't in danger just yet, but we could well be spotted very soon. We walked to where paula and liz waited with horses by the south road; the approaching dragoons were now invisible below the line of next hill. Presumably they would be upon us soon.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini remarked to prince rupert as we walked from the village "We have decided it would be remiss of us if having rescued you, you were captured soon after we left. When we get safely away from here we must talk about where you would go, and whether we can assist you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you, my lady."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She laughed "Please, I am not your lady. Call us all by our first names. Use of titles could get us all killed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i fetched a coat of ceramic mail and a pack for the prince. I made a pretence of rummaging in nalini's pack then presented them to rupert. "If you wear these, you will look like one of us. You might avoid detection then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He picked up the jerkin, asked "Is this some sort of armor? It is very light."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, it is a special substance. It is bullet proof."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What is it? It is not steel."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, it is a substance called ceramic plastic. Um... you know that diamonds are the hardest gem?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, they will scratch any other gem."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is like diamond, but it does not shine."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He seemed satisfied with that explanation, and dressed rapidly. We were riding south along the road by time the dragoons crested the hill. Nalini asked "Do they know what you look like?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Some will have seen my likeness, but most would rely on my armor and standard to recognize me. But as a man with long blond hair and a foreign accent I will still stand out."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As we walked, nalini and i worked a seeming on him, a simple illusion, changing his hair from shoulder length blond to short and brown. We saw no need to tell him, and it would wear off in twelve hours or so. We did tell him to look confident, as if he had every right to ride with us, and not to make them suspicious by hiding his face.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The dragoons came abreast of us and stopped us. There were about fifteen of them, but one by his black clothes was a puritan. He was portly, middle aged, florid of face, with a sour expression permanently fixed there. "Ask them what they are doing captain." he said to a dragoon at his side.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 This man called out to us "Where are you from, and where are you going?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I replied "We are travellers, we thought to go to york, but with the fighting we decided it would be safer to go south again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "York will be safe again soon." the dragoon said.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritan added "Safe once the devil spawn who hide there have been rooted out and destroyed. You be not english, whence do you come?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We are indeed english good sir." nalini replied, her accent suddenly very english. "We are from our Indian colony..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "English! You be a black-a-moor! Heathens the lot of you!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sir, we are all good christians of the anglican persuasion. But you insult my lady wife." I can do a passable immitation of nalini's english accent. "The indian sun is strong, it browns the skin. I request you withdraw your remarks."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'Tis not ladylike to wear britches. Ladies must wear skirts."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini drew herself up. "Think you 'tis ladylike to ride in skirts? When all and sundry can see one's legs?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ladies ride in carriages, not ahorse!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not all places a lady must ride have roads suitable for dainty carriages, my puritan friend. And do not tell me we must ride side saddle, with our legs on public display! Fie sir! Britches are far more practical and far more decorous!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was hard put to suppress a smile.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritan bristled, but the dragoon whom he addressed as captain, had little time for his antics. "Malory, I grow tired of thy constant carping. Those of us who do not wear the puritan garb are christian too. These say they be anglican, like most of us, though not thyself. You puritans would drive the commonfolk from your cause."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Rooting out the devil and his works is our real cause. The king and prince rupert are his tools! These could be too. The world will not be safe until all follow the puritan ways, and all witchcraft has been destroyed!" He waved his finger at the dragoon, then breathed deeply, calmed himself. "I appologise to you folk, I was remiss in common courtesy. Have you seen a tall cavalier, with long blond hair? Fairly young, clean shaven. He rides under the king's standard."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We saw someone like that an hour back, with a companion carrying a standard, riding north with perhaps twenty such as yourselves chasing him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The dragoon captain looked at the puritan. "Mayhap he has already been captured."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritan looked sour. "And mayhap he has reached york, where his witchcraft will give our forces a hard time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The captain made a face. "Malory, had he magics, he would have won yon battle. He did not. Tonight the king will be surrendered, or tommorow York falls."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You will sack York?" prospero asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The captain shook his head. "No, but today we defeated her royalist defenders. Tomorrow Cromwell's army will ride through the gates in triumph, and take any remaining royalist prisoner."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritan added with what sounded like glee "They will be tried for their treasons and beheaded."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But the general population will be safe?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The captain nodded. The puritan volunteered "We will search diligently for witches and devil worshippers, and round them all up for execution."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do you expect to find many? How will you search? We have business interests there, will they be safe?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritan replied "Be they protestant they will be safe. But catholics, jews, royalists and other devil worshippers will be rooted out, the branch cut off! We will purge this land with god's holy fire!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And we anglicans will be exhorted to join the puritan faith?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course, we have the one true faith! Anglicans and other protestants may be admitted as christians, and so have before them the hope of being saved it is true, but they need reformation, otherwise they would backslide and lose their salvation."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Aren't catholics christians too?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, don't antagonize the good man. We have delayed them long enough."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritan was looking quite angry. "Catholics? Catholics! They still claim that the king of Spain is the rightful king of England! They worship idols in direct contravention of our blessed scripture! Their pope is a demon, their so called virgin is a pagan abomination, they would have us believe our blessed saviour must decend from his throne and personally visit every mass that is said across Europe..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I thought we'd better shut him up before Liz said something to really put the cat amongst the pigeons. "Then we are agreed that catholics are christians, though in need of reformation. I'm afraid we haven't time to debate that now, you good people all look as if you are on a mission."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritan wagged his finger at us. "How can you call them christians? They don't..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But sir! All our forefathers, including yours, would have been catholic. It was king henry who started the protestant movement in England, in an effort to reform the excesses of what was then simply 'the church'. You can't go around claiming that catholics are not christians, otherwise neither would protestants be christian, because they base their faith on the same teachings as catholics. But enough of this please. We must find lodgings for the night, we have business in York, we would like to know when it will be safe to travel there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritan looked thunderous. He breathed heavily a couple of times, before he responded "King Henry was not a true reformer. Yes he started the Anglican faith, but instead of taking the opportunity to purge all elements of catholicism, he retained many of them. It is the puritans, following in the footsteps of John Calvin, who are purging england of all corrupt religions and religious practices.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Anyone who does not hold to the true christian faith, and all that our blessed saviour taught, cannot be called a christian. I would need at least an entire evening, probably longer, to explain to you all the errors in doctrine, dogma and faith that catholics hold. It starts with the office of the pope..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The captain cut him off, sounding bored. "Enough Malory, there isn't time for this! We must find whether our men have captured or killed rupert."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Before you go sir, when will it be safe to travel to York?" i insisted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The captain thought for a moment "Bide a day or two. If you ride to the manor, mayhap you can follow cromwell's party when they come to take posession of York. 'Twill be safe then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We moved our horses to the side to let them pass. I said "Good Malory, perchance we will meet some day under more pleasant circumstances, and can then discuss this issue in greater detail. I am sure we would find your discourse on what makes a true christian and into what errors the various christian faiths have fallen quite fascinating."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Hey, don't overdo it! He's sure to spot the sarcasm.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That seemed to molify him though. "That heartens me sir. There is hope for you yet. Good day."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And may god go with you." i called after them. We rode on. Everyone was quiet until we cleared the hilltop and were heading down the other side. Then several conversations started at once.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert exclaimed "They did not recognize me! They did not recognize me!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz was angry. "Hey! I'm a catholic. What was all that shit about?" Rupert gave her a sudden wary look.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied enigmatically to prince rupert "People see what they expect to see. They do not expect prince rupert to ride openly up to a squad of dragoons and engage them in conversation. Liz and I caught their attention with our dark skin."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz continued "I thought that puritans were supposed to be good people. He was a nasty piece of shit!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, I'm sure you recall from your studies that religious tolerance wasn't their strong suit. A lot of it's political as well. Just remember Queen Elizabeth had to be anglican to be ligitimate, and that Philip of Spain had a claim otherwise." She nodded, remembering her history.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I turned to rupert "Rupert, are all the puritans like that? We thought they were generally good people, not fanatics. He was downright evil."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert shook his head. "At first like you I heard that puritans were good christians, intent simply on removing the more questionable practices that have crept into the christian faith. I am protestant, though not anglican. There are many catholics in europe, most of them are no worse nor no better than protestants. The popes have caused problems by meddling in politics. There are some problems with the catholic faith, but all the other faiths came from it. I could give you a discourse on what is wrong with catholicism, but I will agree with you that they are christian.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But did not queen Mary institute persecution of protestants? I seem to recall that she brought in specialists from Spain, on the pretence of rooting out herecy from the catholic faith. Surely you recall that protestant faiths were outlawed, and many who would not bow to Spain were executed, their lands forfeit. That was what led to the thwarted rebellion by Sir Thomas Wyatt who wanted to depose Queen Mary and replace her with Elizabeth. He was executed, and Elizabeth was luck not to be executed also. There are still some in the court of king Charles who claim Queen Mary was poisoned."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz interrupted "I seem to recall she was only in her early forties when she died, so it could be true. Elizabeth succeeded her, and she could be legitimate only if king Henry's divorce was legal, and that was legal only if parliament took the Anglican point of view. She must have taken some action against catholicism too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert nodded. "She did indeed, barring catholics from all official positions, and forcing the catholic church to pay tax. She also had many leading catholics executed. But she also barred puritans from public office. She may have had some of their leaders executed. When she died, James 6th of Scotland became James 1st of England, he was more moderate toward the catholics, as is his son Charles. King Charles overturned the bans on puritans, and for a time they seemed content. But then they rebelled, claiming that protestants were almost as corrupt as catholics.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sadly, the puritans in England have become filled with hatred of all things non puritan. They see everything as the devil's work, including dancing, having fun or the wearing of colored clothing. At first their diatribes were against the pope and witches, but they became more outspoken, until not only witches were claimed to be devil worshippers, but also catholics, jews, the Irish, the Spanish and the French. To be a christian is no longer good enough, nor even to be a protestant one, now to be saved one must be a puritan. And now their claims have grown even more outrageous, I am become magician and devil worshipper, along with the king!}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Down south, they have a insituted a reign of terror, where people are burned daily as witches because they happen to be catholic, or royalist, or Irish, or have a mole or a mark upon their bodies. Neighbour denounces neighbour and receives their property for reward.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Our only hope is for the king to be restored, and parliament abolished, but they have superior numbers, superior weapons, they win each battle. They claim it is because heaven fights on their side. York was our last bastion, but our army is scattered, many brave men died today. Scotland will not help, they favor the puritan, and would sell the king back to cromwell.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "With the army destroyed, York will surrender, and hand over the leading royalists. If the king is captured and executed, all our hopes are gone. But I very much fear that with our army destroyed, we have very little hope even now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He had become agitated during this recital, and I began to realise just what stress he was under. He was the commander of the king's army, such as it was, and he saw himself as the only chance to stem the tide of terror rolling across England.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz spoke first "The king could take refuge in Wales, Ireland or France. He might be able to raise another army in France. There's still hope."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked at her appraisingly. "It's true, he might be able to raise an army there, and perhaps from some of the German states, but the French are not liked in England. France might be the choice for a life in exile though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think the rest of us were wondering at what we could do to help in a situation like this. "Torquemada, the Spanish Inquisition, the French Revolution, Hitler and the Nazis, the Russian Revolution, the Chinese revolution. The terror can only be maintained with the help of spies, inquisitors who denounce people who stray from the one true way, and the army. The general populace support such revolutions because they are fed up with the current government. After a few years they realize they swapped a bad government for one even worse. King Charles must have made many mistakes for the revolution to have happened."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert sighed. "It is true, he was always more interested in his pleasures than in good government. But he has changed, he will be a better king this time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "Didn't he abolish parliament and rule as a despot? Wasn't that part of the reason why cromwell originally started the revolution?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert commented "I was a child then, but I believe he did abolish parliament. When it was reconvened it pressed him to abdicate, but once cromwell gained control, he removed all parliamentarians who were not puritans. Now it is nothing more than a rump, comprising religious fanatics. Cromwell is already styled the Lord Protector, but his protection has turned to terror."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "This may sound harsh, but government by one man depends very much on just how talented that one man is. A democratic parliamentary system is much better, but from what you describe, your parliament is really a junta, which is just as bad." Seeing the look of puzzlement, she added "A junta is government by a small group of people, typically with the backing of the army. A democratic parliament, where representatives are elected by all the people, works much better. I don't think england has had this yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "I'd say not all the army supports them either, judging by what we saw today."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If they have started a reign of terror, then the populace won't support them any longer either. An army can only rule in terror for so long before it has to choose whether to massacer the population, or support a revolution to overthrow the government." I added. "Religious fanatics skew the equation, because they believe the terror earns them salvation or some such garbage. I think rupert is right that parliament has to be abolished to stop the terror. Then a strong government must be installed to oversee the transition, or everything falls apart, and suddenly the French and the Spanish invade. But nalini is also right, the new government must oversee a peaceful transition to a parliamentary democracy. Of course, most people here don't know what that is."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert asked "Is that something from ancient Greece? Didn't they have somthing where all the adult men of athens met to decide what their city did?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, but that is unwieldy when there are more than a few hundred people wanting to have a say. Parliamentary democracy is when people elect representatives of their town or group of villages, um... I think the correct term here is burrough?" the others looked blank. "Anyway, you end up with a few hundred representatives, who meet to form the parliament. after three or four years they retire, and new representatives are elected. They can stand again, but if they did things that were unpopular, they don't get re-elected."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini was nodding. "You don't really need an army if the people are on your side. These examples won't mean anything to you, but in our experience there was the Berlin wall, the fall of communism, the indonesian coup and so on where people stood up to their rulers and brought down the government."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "There must be a small group of people who control things. They are the ones to target, not the army. Remove them, it will all fall apart."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There are the religious fanatics like that Malory we saw. They need to be neutralized as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert had been watching us as we talked. He seemed to be thinking for a while, then asked "Where are you headed?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Actually we're just following the road right now." I replied. "What ever we do is a detour. I'm not sure we can be of much help, but I think we have some ideas to mull over. I know you want to rejoin your army, but you need to be sure that you will not be captured trying. We have to talk about this, see what we think is the best course. Do you know where cromwell is at the moment?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not right now, but he has taken posession of a manor half a days ride from here. He dispossessed a royalist to obtain possession, and had him beheaded for treason. Now parliament is convened there while his forces subdue the north."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "Apart from cromwell, do you know who the leaders are? and where they are? Would they all be at his headquarters?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, apart from cromwell, there are six others who control the parliament. They would all be at the manor."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The rest of us were tired and hungry. Although in this shadow it was mid afternoon, our internal clocks were five or six hours ahead. "We need some food, it has been ages since we last ate. Rupert, you must be hungry too." nalini asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded. "I have not eaten since this morning. I am not sure where around here we could eat."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Danny, we need to shift somewhere else. Then once we've eaten and rested we can return rupert. How do you think he'll react?>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<He's intelligent, not too superstitious. I was going to say probably no worse than prospero, but here witches are burned. Perhaps we can claim to be elves or something? Can we find our way back to this particular shadow, when there are so many similar ones?>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<I was thinking of taking him to where he is supposed to rendezous with his army. Like we took prospero and amrik back to tarantia. This place needs help, but they may not see our interference as help.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Yeah, I'm not sure what we should do. We can talk over dinner though.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right, we will look for somewhere to eat and rest. We can talk there about what we should do, how we might help. Rupert, do you know where you would rendezvous with your army? Is there somewhere pre-arranged, and do you know it well? Or will you just ride north west in hope of meeting them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Umm... there is a place, I have been there once before. I would need to ask in villages along the way for exact directions though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero snorted "And leave a trail for the dragoons to follow?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked downcast. "We did not expect to lose this battle. I did not expect to be separated from the survivors so easily. We always thought the north was for us, but we did not reckon with cromwell's ironsides. Regretably I do not know the north well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We came to a point where the raliway crossed the road. In my shadow, railways did not exist during the english civil war, but were invented a century or more later. "How long has the railway been here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, it is relatively new, I know that. I believe they built the line from london to york only five or ten years ago. There is one that brings coal from Wales, another that joins this line in the Midlands. The merchants built them to transport goods to london. But cromwell used them to transport his army swiftly to York."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini thought to me <<Right here is fairly distinctive. I feel sure I could find my way back here.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I looked around. <<That small crag over there may help as well.>>. Aloud i said "All of you look around, fix this site. This is where we can return to."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Prince rupert, please trust us. We need food and rest, there is none to be had round here. We will take you somewhere else for a time." We were walking our horses over the rails as she spoke. She reached out and shifted us to a shadow with lemon yellow skies, an ashphalt road and two railway lines. There were now hedges along the side of the road. The horses hoofs rang on the road.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert had time to ask "What has happened? Is this something you are doing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do not be afraid rupert, you will not be hurt. We are journeying away from your home to another realm."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini shifted us again. The sky shaded to brownish orange clouds, the road became dull orange gravel, while the trees became spare, dirty looking gnarled pines. It didn't look inspiring.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Where exactly are we going?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We're going somewhere safe, where we all can eat and rest, and discuss what we are going to do to help you and your king, without worrying about shopkeepers informing cromwell's spies."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We shifted again, and now it was toward evening, the sky yellow green with fluffy pink clouds. In the distance was a small town. The road was gravel, the bushes cleared for some distance on either side. Two more shifts and we were riding into a town along a grey gravel road in twilight. The road was busy, horses and carriages thronging in both directions.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The population seemed mostly to be a cross between asian and indian, but there were as many pale faces as darker ones. Just ahead was a large hotel. We left the horses in the care of a groom, and went in to register. Prospero and paula were trying to explain shadow shifting to rupert. Nalini and i registered four rooms on the second floor, paying with gold coins in advance. Rupert was mystified, looking around goggle eyed at such wonders as electric lighting. The rooms featured such modern wonders as running water for baths and flushing toilets; prospero made sure that rupert knew how to use everything. While that was happening, nalini and i concentrated on fetching some clean clothes for rupert.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Rupert, our appologies if these clothes don't fit properly, but they are the best we could find at short notice. They may not be exactly what you're used to, but they should be comfortable."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "By the way, this fastener here is called a zipper. It works like this." I demonstrated.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He thanked us, but there was a strange expression on his face. We agreed to be ready in half an hour for dinner.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i had a quiet chuckle about rupert's expression as we'd led him up the stairs to his room. "I think he's wondering if he's dreaming right now." I commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He's taken it reasonably well, but it may not have sunk in yet. One thing though, he cannot tell anyone back home about this without being thought either mad or a sorcerer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We ran a bath, washed ourselves in a basin while it was running, then soaked for a while. We follow the japanese practice of using the bath to soak, and making sure we are clean first. One thing led to another, and we weren't ready when prospero knocked on our door.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As we headed down, I put my arm on Liz's shoulder. "How're you feeling liz?" Nalini put her arm round liz from the other side, gave her a squeeze.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked at me, looked at nalini, gave a wan smile. "I'm okay, just a bit sad, that's all. I wish I hadn't had to kill those soldiers. I'll get over it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Death stalks us all, Liz. They were trying to kill us, they ran out of time. It was self defense."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, I'm not worrying about it. I'm not sure if I should have come along, 'cos then none of this would have happened..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not to you anyway." nalini interrupted. "We'd have still been there, but then there'd have only been paula to stop the others from coming over the wall. Things would have been a lot more dangerous for us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz slipped an arm around each of us. "Thanks guys, I'm feeling better. In fact, I'm starving!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It can't have effected you too much then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, takes a lot to put me off me tucker."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We all went downstairs to a huge restaurant that served cuisine from the four corners of the world, mostly asian style dishes. The menu was written in several languages, the only one we recognized was chinese, but using the complete form characters, not the simplified ones that I am used to. I could read part of the menu only. Nalini can read the complete form, she sent some time explaining the dishes to us, with some help from a waiter for some of the more exotic ones. The waiters spoke a language reminescent of chinese, but neither nalini nor I could understand without the translation spell.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Eventually we ordered up a feast to share between the six of us. Nalini, as she often does, ordered hot chillis on the side. There was more food than we could eat, but prospero and rupert were mainly to blame for that.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was in gourmet heaven, he insisted we order a few delicacies just because they were there, like a made with snake, and another one made with tiger. Prince rupert was game to try asian style foods, and wanted to be able to taste as many as he could.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert sat back, looked around at all of us, then said firmly "I have been quiet until now, but I think you owe me a full explanation. Where are we? Who are you people? How did we get here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "Prospero told you something of the explanation. There are different realms that lie side by side, we can travel between them. We generally refer to them as shadows, sometimes as realms. That you must accept on trust, english has no words to describe this properly. Neither can we explain exactly where we are in relation to your home realm. Think of it this way: a few hundred years ago we all believed that the earth was the center of the universe, and that the sun and stars revolved around it. Now, at least I think this is the case in your shadow, we believe the earth revolves around the sun."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked thoughtful, but nodded. "That theory is banned by the puritans and the catholics alike, but we germans know of it. It is not intuitive, but I understand it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "Many theories are not exactly intuitive. They are held because they describe observed behaviour better than intuition. But a theory is no more than that - an attempt to explain how the universe works. It isn't necessarily correct, none of us can claim to know the mind of god when he designed the universe. Even the idea that the earth goes around the sun is very human centric. We assume that we are the most important beings in god's universe, and that there is only one earth. Even the word universe implies there is only one. But" she held up a finger "God has made many suns and many earths, and separated each one by a veil. While this image is not strictly correct, we can visualise these many earths like the pages of a book. It is possible to travel through the veils, god has given some of us the necessary powers. Normally we don't reveal that to anyone who does not already posess such powers. I think you realize that the puritans and others would try to burn us as sorcerers, when all we are doing is using natural powers granted by god."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero mentioned something of the elves, implying that they could move between these realms. Admitting that you speak to elves in front of a puritan could be enough to have you burned."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She nodded. "Then you see why we do not advertise our abilities. Now, it is necessary to travel through each page to get to a particular one. We were passing through your shadow when the battle started, on our way to somewhere else. Now we are trying to help you.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We are who we said we were; I do come from india, except not the one in your shadow; prospero does come from aquilonia, he is second in command after king amrik. His country is in the process of moving to a parliamentary democracy, I think it would benefit you, your king, along with cromwell and his cronies if they visited there and saw how things are being set up. They are trying to stop the despotism that rule by one man or a small group encourages. Cromwell deposed the king, but now he is dictator in his stead, with his own group of advisors he calls parliament."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is certainly true." rupert sighed. "I feel I can trust you, that you are not witches despite your strange powers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prince rupert, we are all christians, although not all identical. Liz is the only catholic here, but despite what you may have heard, she won't grow horns or bite you." I replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz added "I'm just the same as everyone else really. We're all human. I mean, where we come from it is illegal to discriminate against people because of religion, or the color of their skins. But I read somewhere that Cromwell excluded catholics from his army, and everyone thought he was being very tolerant. We find that extremely intolerant."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked at liz, who was seated beside him, for a few moments. "It is true, he excludes catholics and jews. I have to admit I was brought up to believe that as a protestant I was morally superior to all catholics, but as I grew up I have changed. Some of my best friends are catholic."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz suddenly laughed. "I'm sorry, that's a bad joke where I come from people who hate those of us with dark skin will say "but some of my best friends are..." Usually I have a problem of people being prejudiced against me because I'm black, or brown really, no one else i've met is prejudiced against my religion. But you are setting me apart because I'm catholic. I should get upset, but I realise you are a product of your age. Listen, catholics aren't bad anymore than protestants are, or puritans for that matter. They are all people, and some people are good, and some are bad. Judge each one by their own actions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert replied "To be honest, I have never seen people with colored skin before, although I knew they existed. I believe I never formed an opinion on this. It surprises me to think that people would be prejudiced because of your color. I know we don't like what we call black a moors, but they are heathen, not christian. But you are saying that we should not judge people together because of their religion." He nodded to himself. "In fact I am sure that scripture says something similar."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At this point the food started arriving. Nalini announced "All right, while we're eating, no talk of politics or religion, or anything else that is going to get anyone upset. After dinner, we will have a round table discussion about what we can do to help prince rupert. Tomorrow we will start what we decide."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was plenty of food, and each dish very tasty. Prince rupert tried eating with chopsticks, but claiming he would starve, he resorted to a fork, like liz. Everybody enjoyed the meal, we all drank wine, and by the end of it i think we all felt quite friendly and mellow.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After dinner we did have quite a free-ranging discussion.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert started "As I see it, my duty is to return to king Charles, and see how things are. If York has fallen, then there will be no safe haven in England, we would be best fleeing to France, living in exile until we can raise another army. If York has not fallen, and our army survives, we may have a chance."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero shook his head. "Exile i can agree with, but fighting a superior army will not work. You need more men, you need better equipment, you need better cavalry, better guns, better discipline. Cromwell has a well disciplined army, you only had to look at the way they use their guns; his horse are heavily armored, so many bullets will bounce off. If you flee to France, you could raise an army and train it to be better than Cromwell's. But you will also need money to pay for all that. Are there kings in Europe who would lend your king such a sum?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert rubbed his jaw thoughtfully. "France would let him live in luxurious exile, they might loan him money, but probably not enough. Spain might be willing to lend Spanish troops, but on unacceptable conditions. They have never given up their claim to the throne since Queen Mary married Philip of Spain. They are dangerous catholics, they would probably try to outlaw protestantism. The english have little love for the French, they have even less for the Spanish. If he were to return at the head of a French or Spanish army, he would look as if he were invading. He would not have popular support."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero remarked "I still think it is possible to resolve this without further bloodshed"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How could we do that? The civil war has been running for almost two years now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It would have been better to resolve it before it ever came to war. Once a war has started, people support one side or the other, and a peaceful resolution has to wait until people grow tired of war."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So what do you propose?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Somehow we must gather together the leaders of each side, encourage them to talk with one another, perhaps by means of go-betweens. It is a process, and it can be almost as long drawn out as a war. Each side states a position, the other side discusses what is wrong with it, and then each side modifies their position in the light of the other side's comments. Eventually they reach a point where there is agreement, and the conflict is resolved."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But prospero," i commented "that only works if both sides are prepared to compromise. And even then, the compromise must be acceptable to the general public, or it's not going to work."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes... as a general rule you are right. But with skilled negotiators, acceptible compromises can be worked out."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So how do we get them to dialog? Do we just march into cromwell's manor, and round up the gang of seven at gunpoint?" I couldn't see how it would work.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, first we must find out what makes cromwell tick, what his real goals are, and then we can offer some of those as prizes for negotiation...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh huh... we sell him on the idea of talking to charles. But what? I'm sure charles would negotiate if he was offered the throne back, but that might be completely unacceptible to Cromwell."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "And anything Cromwell wants might be completely unacceptible to charles."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert added "If this war were at a stalemate then such a tactic would probably work. I am familiar with the general ideas of negotiation and compromise. But Cromwell has all but driven the royalists into the sea. We are trapped between the puritans of England and those of scotland. The only countries likely to offer assistance will be catholic ones, because they want to restore catholicism as the official religion of england. The protestant countries of europe cannot afford to anger their much larger catholic neighbours, nor anger England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero made a rueful smile "Gunpoint may be the only way to get them into the same room. But I think I understand this situation a lot better than you others. I come from a similar environment where the king is supreme ruler, by divine right. I am sure Cromwell still has the awe of the king and a love of the king's office buried somewhere inside. He feels guilty at deposing the king, which is why he wants to have him executed. While the king is alive, he is a threat to cromwell, and a source of guilt. With the king dead, executed for treason, he can be given a funeral and is no longer a threat, while the use of the law, and the spreading of the responsibility to the judges will partly ameliorate Cromwell's guilt. I believe that Cromwell and his advisors will negotiate because of that guilt. Offer them an honorable way that doesn't involve killing the king, and they will take it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sounds good" Liz commented "but what about the reign of terror? What about the religious bigotry? Bigots won't negotiate, because they see that as compromising their religious beliefs."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert responded "Cromwell is largely a man of honor, even though I do not agree with what he has done. I agree with prospero's assessment of him. However, some of his advisors and some of his supporters are religious fanatics, they will brook no compromise, and will cause trouble."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Part of the negotiated solution would have to be dealing with those, and removing them from power. If Cromwell is more reasonable, he might have to be left with some power, and so keep his followers happy." I put in.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert considered this. "It is likely he would agree to a restoration with sever limits placed upon the king's powers. He must keep his government legitimate, or be tried for treason as soon as king Charles is restored. The king will never accept the limits Cromwell would impose."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero responded "It must be made workable, else you all condemn the country to an ongoing civil war coupled with a reign of terror. The principles are more important than the people. You could stage a restoration using Charles' son if that is more acceptable."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked at propsero appraisingly. "And if not Charles' son, why not myself? After all, I am his nephew, I too have a claim to the throne. But I see your drift. You would have a restoration, with limits placed upon the king's powers, and a modified form of parliament. Cromwell would not settle for less."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We tossed around other ideas for helping, but there did not seem to be a lot we could do to help, other than return rupert to his army, or king Charles. We did not have an army, nor were any of us prepared to convince amrik to lend Aquilonia's army to prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero suggested capturing cromwell and having a long talk, but he agreed that without both parties being willing to negotiate, no settlement could be reached.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In the end, we all seemed to agree that it was a black day for the english people in rupert's shadow, but it was a problem of their own making, and they had to develop methods to deal with it. Rupert seemed resigned to returning to the king, and helping him to France, there to live in exile until such time as he could raise a new army.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But rupert, if we can convey you to the king, you must introduce us to him, or at least myself. I am willing to be the go-between, and see what I can do to get this process going. I admit it will not be easy, but I can try, and I am skilled in such negotiations."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero, I thank you for offering. I will try, that is all I can promise. If you are to be the go-between, we must ensure that you do not lead cromwell's men to the king."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would travel through neighbouring realms, no one can follow me that way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero, there would have to be time out while we went about king amrik's business. That can wait a little, but not too long."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, they would not expect instant communications. Once the process is started, it may take weeks of to-ing and fro-ing just to set up the framework. It may well be that during this time king Charles retires to France. In my home it has taken months to work out the big picture as you call it for the powers and scope of parliament and the king. It will take months more to set everything up, maybe longer. The same applies to this situation. What is important is a peaceful restoration, and a removal of Cromwell's reign of terror. That could take months or longer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert snorted "And it could take years! A good decisive battle would be better."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But for how long have you been fighting now? You are not winning either. What if this process had been started back when cromwell sought to depose the king?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked somewhat tired. "There is nothing else you can suggest? Can you not perform some magic, and fix everything?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "Prince Rupert, we are not magicians, we do not traffic with demons or any other powers. What we accomplish is through the application of natural powers. Even if we could perform some magic, it would not solve the underlying problems. When problems arise, people try to solve them. When rulers or others interfere and prevent that from happening, they fester, and break out again even worse. This civil war tells me that the problems have been around for some time, and rulers have been suppressing any resolution of them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "Think of it this way, prince Rupert: God keeps arranging for people with ideas to step forward and try to fix the problems that arise. In the past, those people were suppressed by the ruler of the day. The problems become worse year by year, like an unchecked disease, and the remedy becomes more severe each time. It is a shame the situation has come to civil war, but if we were somehow to remove cromwell and his cronies, a new cromwell would arise, and his remedies would be even more harsh than this one."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He suddenly chuckled. "Suppose you had taken a wound in battle. If treated, it will heal. If you do not treat it, you will swiftly develop gangrene and die horribly. Once it is festering, mormal treatments will not work. But you can still treat it by allowing maggots to eat the rotting flesh. It is not a pleasant remedy, but it can save you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ugh!" from liz.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh yuck!" from paula.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert raised his eyebrows. "I know there are some soldiers who swear that will work. I do not know of any physician who would prescribe that though. But I take your point, if you are sickening to die slowly from your wound, it is likely you would try such a treatment. So if we liken England to a wounded soldier, he is now sickening of his wound, and the physician is applying red hot iron to burn out the poison."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "But a hot iron should only be used for badly bleeding wounds. The heat itself causes further injury. Distilled alcohol is much better. I am told it causes far less damage, and can reach parts of a wound a hot iron cannot reach easily."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But not easy to come by. At least not for the common soldier."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Wine will work as well, I am told."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini butted in "If you boys are going to swap battle medicine, then let me add my two pence worth. Distilled alcohol works on a fresh wound, maggots work where the wound is festering. If the wound does not bleed freely, it should be washed with boiled water, or wine, to get the dirt out. Now let me tell you two other remedies that work. First, take bread that has gone mouldy, and apply the mould directly to the wound. Re-apply fresh mould night and morning for a week, maybe two depending on how deep the wound is, and the wound will heal. You can leave it on the bread, and place the bread onto the wound, or sprinkle the mould into the wound. The other is spiderwebs, you apply them night and morning to a wound. But you must be sure to collect enough spiderwebs to cover the wound. Mouldy bread is easier to arrange."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert mused "Most soldiers who die from a battle do so afterwards, as a result of their wounds. I will remember the mouldy bread remedy. If I ever get a chance, I will try it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "The bread rememdy is one I will remember too. I think we've gone a little off the track though. I think I was talking about remedies for despots."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked directly at rupert. "I grew up under an evil king, a despot and tyrant; no one was safe from his depraved lusts, his inquisitors were everywhere in search of those who did not worship the ground he walked upon. He killed all his close relatives lest they become a threat to the throne, including his own children. We had our civil war, the tyrant was deposed and executed. The nobles would then have fought a protracted civil war to promote their own candidate to the throne. Instead we arranged to put a commoner on the throne, but one who has more nobility in his little finger than all the nobles I have met put together. Now we are setting curbs and checks on the king's powers, as well as those of the nobles, and creating a parliament of the nobles and another of the commoners. Kings are not divine, aristocratic birth is no guarantee of noble temprament. It is our duty to create a framework for good government, such that it can be handed down to our children and grandchildren."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That lead to a story about how Amrik came to be king. Prospero downplayed his roll in the business. When he had finished, Liz asked "Prospero, weren't you the rightful heir? Why didn't you take the job?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero made a face. "It is true that I probably have the best claim, but once you go past immediate cousins, there are many nobles who have a connection through a grandparent or great grandparent, and most of them will support their own claim. There were eight other factions supporting their own claimant. Amrik was the army commander, he was popular with the army and the general people. Some of the nobles liked him, many feared him, but most of them were willing to back a him in preference to one of their own from another faction.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So far, Amrik is the most popular king we have ever had, he has the will for reform to prevent abuse of power in future, he has guts to take on the nobles, and he can be ruthless if it is necessary." He looked around at each of us, his smile flashing. "He is a much better king than I could make, I am happier being a voice of reasonableness. If I were king in his stead, I could not travel as I do. I also have the ears of the nobles, they are more willing to talk with me about their objections than to the king. They still remember how the tyrant would have them flayed alive for the slightest criticism."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned suddenly somber. "I have heard enough about the despotism of king Charles, and Cromwell's reign of terror, it all reminds me too much of the tyrant. I can't just walk away, I have to try!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                    ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That night we ended up going to bed quite late. Nalini and I snuggled up, and later went dreaming together. Nalini has always been slightly better at this than I am. She says I should write that women are better at dreaming than men. They do seem to find it easier, I have to admit.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was asleep, when I became aware of someone calling my name. I sat up in bed, then realized that the bedcovers were still in place, that nalini was asleep beside me. That meant I was dreaming. The walls were pale pilk, and seemed to bubble a bit like a glass of lemonade. Everything vibrated and danced, proving to me that this was the physical world, not some dreaming double.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini hovered over the bed, wearing a black one piece dress wih emerald green panels. Her hand was outstretched to me. "Come sweetheart, we have some things to do tonight." She looked as she might in waking, except that there was an aura streaming out around her.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I floated off the bed, took her hand. She felt much the same as in waking. "Yes, where should we start?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The village is a good starting point."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It is simply necessary to visualize where we wish to go, will it, and we are there. Traveling in dreaming is part of the skill of shadow shifting.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We drifted hand in hand above the cornfield from which we had watched the battle earlier today. It was late evening here, but to our eyes everything was luminous. There was a silvery light as if from a full moon, only brighter. Dead soldiers and horses lay everywhere, many horribly injured; hands cut off, faces shorn partly off, some disemboweled. Live humans scurried around, some wheeling carts and checking for wounded, but others were scavangers, checking the dead and dying for anything of value, stealing what they liked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Over the scene floated spectral soldiers, still dressed as when they died. Some were trying to talk to live colleagues, others berating the scavangers, both with no success; still others wandering around in groups, looking lost.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were others there as well, others who were not newly dead. Most looked human, some did not. As far as we could tell, nalini and i were the only dreamers, we were the only two who seemed to have a chord coming out of the backs of their heads. The others were either spirit beings, or those who had died at some earlier date. Many were trying to attract the attention of the newly deceased soldiers, with limited success. Not until the newly dead soldiers were over their shock would they be in a position to acknowledge these helpers.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As far as we are aware, the helpers are volunteers who attend death scenes to aid those who have newly passed over. When the death is known in advance, like disease or old age, they are often deceased relatives. But in cases such as this it is simply who ever wants to help. Some were non human, and we have no idea whether they were there to help as well, or were working to other agendas.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I sometimes work as helpers for a few hours, but that tends to be very much on an ad hoc basis. There are plenty of deceased spirits around to do that.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stayed away from the battleground itself with the many newly deceased wandering in shock. Nearby one man was crying out to himself "My wife! My children! Who will look after them now?" I had no words of comfort. If they had no relatives to care for them, they would probably starve, or the wife might have to turn to prostitution to support them. The puritans of course would comdemn her to death if she did and they caught her.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our plans were to find Cromwell's headquarters, check out the situation around York, and perhaps locate king Charles. We were about to zoom into the sky when we spied a young dragoon sitting on the ground, looking dejected. "Can you help us?" he called out.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He was obviously dead, but only recently, for there was still a trace of the chord that had tethered him to his body. From the look of the body, he'd died from a nasty abdominal wound, probably in great pain, after several hours.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That depends on what you mean by help." nalini replied. We floated over to him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He indicated a young cavalier lying close by, a broken sword blade thrust into his side. There was a pool of blood around, and blood frothing from his lips. The sluggishness of the flow and the dullness of his aura suggested he was very close to death.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm sorry, but he is almost dead."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded. "You cannot ease his pain? I tried, but I cannot pick up a knife."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We doubt it. We have no physical bodies. We cannot pick up a knife either."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A look of anguish crossed his face. "Then I am dead?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, you are dead. The world of the living is no longer your concern."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What do I do now?" it was almost a wail.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Death stalks us all. You just ran out of time. Don't be upset."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "We'll show you where to go shortly, but we should wait for your friend to die first."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He isn't my friend, he killed me did you know? And I stabbed him as well, and we both fell down...." He spoke in jerks, as if he were thinking aloud. "It took me hours to die... I was in terrible pain... We talked... I no longer hate him... There were so many things I wanted to do in my life..." He began to talk about his hopes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We encouraged him to talk, but to be honest it was rather sad listening to him. Liz suddenly popped into existance. "Hi guys, I've been trying to find you. What are you doing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We explained. The young dragoon sat there listening. He nodded to liz. Liz looked around, taking in the newly dead, the helpers, the hangers on. "Kewl! I've always wondered what happened when you died."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The young dragoon asked "Then you aren't dead? How is it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, we're asleep, that's why we can see you and talk to you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Just then the young cavalier gave a groan, and expired. He sat up as a fluffy ill-defined cloudy image of himself. "The pain is gone. I feel peaceful at last. Is this death?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You are both dead. The world of the living is no longer your concern."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked downcast. "I didn't want to die. I heard you talking to Tom, after he died, and I knew then that there was no hope. Then this feeling of peace came over me, and here I am. Where are we? What happens now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is when you find out that all your religious beliefs were not quite correct. It can be quite a shock." We helped both of them to their feet, introduced ourselves. The cavalier's name was James.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Look around you, you will see all the other dead souls, plus volunteers to help them adjust." nalini instructed. "War is such a waste."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tom, the dragoon, commented "It was supposed to be glorious, fighting for god and country against the forces of evil."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 James countered "But we fought for god, king and country. Your side was the evil one."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini swept her arm around, indicating the strewn battlefield. "There is your glory: dead bodies, blood and shit." There was anger on her face. "As for the forces of evil, both your leaders claimed to act for god and country. The road to hell is paved with good intentions. This is where fanaticism, intolerance and bigotry lead. You have cut short each other's life. War is never glorious! Violance is the last resort of the incompetent. Both your leaders were incompetent. They bear the bulk of the blame, but each of you bears responsibility for your own actions. Remember that." She sighed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So what happens now? Do we get judged? Will we meet the saviour, or weren't we good enough?" Tom asked. Both of them were hanging their heads, as if ashamed of their lives, or their situation.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "While you were alive, you were spiritual babes, you were given milk, not meat. Even your priests were spiritual babes." I replied. "While you are here, you will meet others who live in their own little fantasy worlds. They expect certain things to happen after death, like cherubs with harps, or demons with pitchforks, and they will create them with their imagination. You will also meet others who will explain in much more detail what we are telling you now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "We won't overburden you now, there is plenty of time to learn and understand. Firstly, hell, by and large, is out there, where you were alive, where humans perform all sorts of degrading acts upon each other. There are spiritual hells, but humans very rarely go there, and i don't think either of you could conceive of the sorts of evil you would need to merit a journey there. Neither of you are damned."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think both of them looked relieved. I continued "Where we are now is the lowest level of the spiritworld. Here you can see the physical world, but you cannot touch it. Some gifted people can see you, most people cannot. And in your land, the puritans and the catholics burn those who can see you. Those who burn others are evil."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Each of you will be given another chance. You will stay in the spirit world for a time, and then you will be reborn as another baby, with little memory of your previous life. God is not the stern perpetrator of hate as portrayed in your religions, god is a loving parent. If you tried, but failed, you will be given another chance."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They both nodded. James asked "How are we reborn? The scripture does not teach that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Spiritual milk for spiritual babes." I replied. "You may remember from your scripture, the people asked Jesus about a man born blind, was it because of his parents' sins, which was the jewish interpretation, you sin and your children and grandchildren suffer, or was he born blind because of his own sins? He could only be born blind because of his own sins if he had lived before, otherwise you would have god punishing you for sins you have not yet committed. If you had read your scripture, you would find several instances like this, and nowhere in the scripture did jesus ever deny that people could be born again. But you don't tell babies that they will be given another chance, because they will do nothing and put everything off until next time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "Have either of you been to school?" Tom had been for two years, while James had been for three. She added "Life is like time spent at school. There are a number of lessons you have to learn. If you do not learn them, you have to repeat them. Death is like the end of the school year, you take a break, then return to new lessons. This is your break. This is your chance to review what you learned, or failed to learn, in your last life."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They both looked at one another. "This is nothing like the pastor told us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, he knew very little about this." I replied. "Here in the spirit world you will be unable to meet people that are not compatible with you, except at this lowest level. You will gain very little by hanging around here, pining for the life you left. You can come back here to see how loved ones are doing, but you must remember that they cannot see you or hear you. You will probably only upset yourselves. You must let the living get on with their lives. You have other things to do."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They both looked sad. Nalini continued "You probably have lots of questions, though it may take you a while to realise. Not everyone you see around you is dead. Some are spirit beings, who have never been in living bodies..." she pointed out some, explained a little about spirit beings. "We three are dreamers, you can tell that by the chord that tethers our spirit bodies to our physical bodies..." She launched into an explanation of dreaming, and how dreamers could visit the spirit world. We were both tailoring our explanations for the level of understanding of these two, trying to couch them in terms they were familiar with.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We lead them slowly away from the battlefield, out over the moor. "Now, it's time to lighten up, stop feeling sorry for yourselves. If you know your scripture, you will know that Jesus said 'In my father's house there are many mansions'. It's an odd expression, because a mansion is a house. Perhaps he should have said 'In the spirit world there are many places', but that doesn't have the same ring." I paused. "There are many regions in the spirit world, we are about to take you to one, introduce you to others who can help you further. But first, we need to tell you that if you wish to move around in the spirit world, as opposed to just floating here, you need to visualize where you want to move to, and will yourself there. This we will try to teach you now. Firstly, please look around here, fix this location in your memories." We gave them time, waited until they indicated they were ready. "Okay, please give us a hand each."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We took their hands, and led them to the area near the university, close to the street with the outdoor cafes. Nalini spoke "This town is probably where you will be staying for a time. Now, could you please look around here, and fix this locale in your memories. Then we will get you to try to go back to the first one."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Where are we?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini took time to explain about the lowest levels of the spirit world corresponded with the physical, that there were other levels where spirits of the dead lived. "This is just one region in one level. There are many other regions, you might get to visit some others during your stay here. We will show you around here shortly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She turned to Tom, who was standing beside her. "Tom, I want you to take me back to the battlefield. Visualize it, and decide that you want to go there." She took his hand.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I turned to James. "I'm sorry I'm not as good looking as she, but you can hold liz's hand as well, and take us back there. Visualize it in front of you, imagine youself moving toward it." Liz smiled at him, took his other hand. A few seconds passed while he gathered himself, then there was a momentary streaming sensation as if we were moving very fast, and the three of us were back where we started. Nalini and Tom were nearby.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good! Not everyone can do that first time. When you are in a region, you can float around, or walk or what ever. But if you want to travel from one region to another, you have to visualize it first."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "That makes it difficult to go somewhere you have never been before. There are ways of finding out nearby regions, but we don't have time for that now. The other way is to befriend someone who has been to another region, and have them take you there. Could you boys please take us back?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That took a little longer, but they managed it. Nalini indicated the outdoor cafes. "This is a place where those who inhabit the spirit world can meet up with dreamers like ourselves. We come here regularly, if you see us, don't be shy about coming over and talking to us. If you look around, you will see others with the chord coming from their backs. They are all dreamers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The two nodded. They were looking happier now, away from the battlefield, as if realizing that being dead wasn't the end of the world, and they might even enjoy themselves here.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We have time for a quick guided tour, and then we must go." Nalini commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "We brought you to this region because this is one we know of, and of the ones we know, we like it the most. If you had met up with different helpers, they might have taken you to other regions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What are some of the other regions like?" James asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "For now you will have to trust us on this, we don't have time to show you the others we know of. Look for us around the cafes here, we will be back from time to time. But there are others we will introduce you to who can do the same." I thought for a moment.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "One is a huge grassy meadow that stretches for ever, with a river running through it, flowers blooming. It is where the pre-christian romans and greeks congregate, but there are many others there also. We call it the Elysium fields after the greeks. We find it a bit boring though...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Another one is where people spend all their time either fighting battles with each other, or eating, drinking and fornicating. It appeals to certain types, but neither of you strike me as that type."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tom asked "But I thought we didn't need to eat or drink or fornicate once we are dead?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You don't. But many humans try to build a semblance of the life they had. So you can find regions where people congregate in villages, tend their little farms and so on. Many of them don't even realize they don't need to do that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "If you have relatives or friends who have died, you can find them by visualizing them, and willing to be with them. It won't always work, because some of them may have already been reborn, some you won't know well enough, and some will be in regions that are not suitable for you. While you can go to those regions, it will be hard work, and unpleasant."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "If you think about it, evil people die too. Where do they end up? The short answer is they end up in regions with others like themselves, and some of those regions can be very unpleasant, like being thrown into prison with a bunch of cut-throats."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tom remarked "That is the first thing you have said that gladdens my heart: that evil people get to suffer in the hereafter."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "They do, but they cause their own suffering. They prey on each other. It's rather fitting really."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tom asked "You said hell doesn't exist. Then you went on to say that there are regions that are something like purgatory. What about heaven?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That depends on what you mean by heaven." I replied. "If you mean somewhere you sit on a cloud playing a harp, then that region exists, and people go there. But if you mean somewhere in the real presence of god, where you can look upon his face, then forget about it. God is not an old man with a long white beard, humans have a very long way to go before they can consider what they even mean by being in god's presence."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But what about the saviour? What about the evangelists and the appostles?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They are all around somewhere, helping others, teaching them how to be better people." I replied, wondering again how to explain all this. "Let me put it like this. Jesus came with a message to the Jews, to tell them that being righteous under the law was not the path to salvation, that they had left out compassion and love. Paul and the evangelists extended that to the pagans. The movement became known as christianity. But somewhere back in the second century, christians forgot about the message, put Jesus on a pedestal and began worshipping him. It was the influx of all those pagan romans and greeks that caused that. The protestants talked about the evils of the catholic church, and the need for reform, but they all missed the vital point. The reform that christianity really needs is to take jesus off the pedestal, to stop worshipping him, and to start trying to live like him. Each of us is responsible for our own salvation, by our own acts, our own words, our own thoughts. Jesus told us of a path, but it is up to each one of us to walk that path. Those who preach that salvation needs only accepting jesus as saviour, and having faith, are misguided, because all that does is say we are willing to walk the path. If we don't actually walk that path, we never attain salvation."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The two looked at one another. Liz commented "Sheesh danny, you sound like a priest or something."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I went to a church school, I did a lot of bible studies when I was younger." I smiled. "I've also done a lot of comparative religious studies, but these two are christians, any explanation has to be in terms they understand. Plus we've had some practice at this sort of thing now, these aren't the first we've helped."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tom remarked "I always thought that faith was not enough. But isn't jesus the only son of god? Why shouldn't we worship him?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented gently "Hey boys, we're getting into heavy stuff, and we don't have a lot of time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'll give a quick answer, you'll have to think about it for a while. Firstly not all the evangelists claimed that jesus was the only son of god. That idea was entrenched by the council of nicea in I think 331 AD. That's where the nicene crede comes from, and the 'only son of the father, begotten, not made' and so on. Before that there was a raging debate about whether he was the only son of god, or just one of many sons, or not even a son of god at all.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Secondly, there are different versions of how he came to be god's son. Mark, who was a desciple and wrote the first gospel, claims he became god's son when he was baptised by John. His original text has god saying 'This is my beloved son, today I have begotten him'. This was changed sometime between the sixth and ninth centuries to read 'This is my only begotten son'. You won't have access to the original text yet, because it is hidden away in the vatican because a cardinal or a pope realized that it would mean changes to their dogma. Matthew and Luke have Jesus a son of god because the holy ghost impregnates Mary. They differ on the details, Matthew has jesus a descendent of David because of Joseph's lineage, while Luke has him a descendent of David by Mary's lineage. John on the other hand, like luke, rejects all stories of virgin births, and instead has Jesus as a special being because his soul was the logos, the word of god.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thirdly, if you read the psalms, they have all of us as sons and daughters of god. Paul in his letters takes the same tack, and even quotes Mark's original text about 'today i have forgotten a son'. The editors of the bible forgot about that when they changed Mark's words.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Fourthly, worshipping Jesus has caused most christians to forget about what Jesus taught. They feel that if they believe he was the only son of god, and their saviour, and they go to church on unday, and follow the ten commandments, then they are saved. Okay, here endeth the lesson."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 James commented "Phew! I wish pastor michael were here. He would be able to quote bible at you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tom looked somewhat angry. "Sir, if i were still alive, I would disagree with you on almost every point. But I would ask you to prove what you say with a bible. The fact that I am dead, neither of us has a copy of the bible, and things are not as I believed they would be means that I can no longer be sure about what I was taught."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You don't have to believe me, just think it over. If you have occasion to come across someone with a bible, or go back to earth and read over someone's shoulder you might find the passages I mean. But I would say don't believe blindly, test everything, be a doubting Thomas like your namesake, and ask for proof. The world is a lot different from what your priests have taught you. Now, let's go on a quick tour of this place."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We floated into the sky to look down on everything. Both Tom and James exclaimed as we rose. "We can fly here!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Except you don't need wings!" nalini replied. "It's the same principle as floating above the ground, only a little higher."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The town was spread out beneath us. There was a broad river flowing between parkland. On the nearer bank, the parkland had the extensive gardens and the sandstone buildings of the university, open areas with amphitheaters, stages and so on. There seemed to be people everywhere. On the further bank, the parkland was more ornamental, with mazes, gazebos, formal Japanese gardens, formal gardens from other parts of the world, informal gardens of various styles. Around all this was a maze of streets with small buildings, many of them shops, cafes, theaters and so on. We pointed out places of interest.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "There are lectures on almost any subject you can think of being given in the university and outside in the gardens. You will be welcome to attend."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We zoomed down again, and made our way through the gardens. We passed street theater performances, poetry readings, music recitals, many with the audience participating. There was an artist performing before a group, creating images on a large canvas by thought alone. We weren't wandering at random, we were meandering toward what I always think of as an Ancient Greek version of stone henge. It is a large ring of broken doric columns and a few greek statues.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini turned to the two soldiers "This is a designated meeting area for helpers to bring newly deceased. The people waiting for us are trained in helping those who have recently died. They will be willing and able to answer your questions, and spend more time with you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We alighted near a group of three people, one a slightly paunchy bearded man in a toga, the second a tall read haired female dressed in something green and foamy, floating around her, the third a slight man with asiatic features, long thin moustache, who wore a formal chinese gown in pale violet silk worked with red and gold thread.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They stopped their conversation to greet us. "So, you have brought us two newcomers?" the female said. "Welcome."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini performed the introductions. "This lady is called Bogdana, this gentleman..." she indicated the man in the toga "..is called Gaius Petrus, though he prefers Peter these days, and this gentleman is Lao Wang Bing" she pronounced the names with the correct tones "although he calls himself Laurence."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is easier for westerners to pronounce." he smiled at the soldiers.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The three greeted the soldiers warmly. We explained the circumstances under which we found them. Bogdana shook her head. "War is a terrible calamity. All three of us were killed in wars of one sort or another. We will help you settle in here, answer your questions, introduce you to others. There were three others who came in a little while ago who may have come from your battle."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Peter made chairs appear for all of us. "Please sit, let's talk."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini declined "I'm sorry Peter, but we three have things to be done before the night wanes. I hope none of you will mind if we leave?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Peter complained "But you have only just arrived! I don't know, you living, always rushing about."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tom asked tentatively "You will return? To visit us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We will. But we are constrained by the demands of living. We often meet at the cafes we showed you. But if you want to talk with us, visualize us. If we are dreaming, you should be able to come to us, althoug that will depend on where we are."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shook both their hands. "Good luck. I know you have lots of questions. Take care of yourselves."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and liz kissed their cheeks. The three volunteers hugged each of us, and then we left. I took liz's hand, put my arm around nalini's waist, and we moved back to the battlefield we'd left some hours before.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, you wanted to talk with us about something?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh.. Yeah. But I probably don't need to now. I wanted to talk about those soldiers we shot. It's been preying on my mind. But they're out there somewhere like those two, aren't they?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Can't speak for each one individually, but they should have encountered helpers who would have done something similar to what we just did."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They might not be in the same region though." nalini added. "That depends on the which one the helper is from."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So I shouldn't really feal guilty about it, should I?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, they were trying to kill us. Death is just part of the cycle. They ran out of time, or their personal power wasn't sufficient, you can look at it either way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "If there had been fewer of them, we might have been able to try things like knocking them out, but with that many we would have signed our own death warrants."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, I understand all that. I just didn't like the idea of actually shooting people. I mean, I just reacted like you showed me when paula told me we had to shoot. It was only afterwards that I thought jeez I've actually shot and killed people. An' I felt sad and guilty about it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You have a very cool head Liz, but the first time you're in danger is always the worst. After that you seem to develop confidence that you have the ability to get out of the situation. I don't think any of us reacted as coolly the first time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Gee thanks." It was flattery, but she smiled anyway. "I know you've told me before, but I never really connected with the idea that all those people round the university are dead. It's not unpleasant at all. So why are we all so afraid of death?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I looked at each other. "We have a theory, but we don't know for sure...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "..some regions are unpleasant, but that's because unpleasant people, the ones who enjoy hurting others, tend to congregate together..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "..if we weren't afraid of death, many people would commit suicide the moment things on earth became unpleasant. It'd be like missing the end of year exams..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "..you'd have to redo everything, and cope with all the unpleasantness again..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "..In fact I think it was Wang Bing who told us that suicides tend to end up in the lower regions, the less pleasant, because of their mental state when they commited suicide. But what they ran away from doesn't go away, because it comes back next life, in very similar circumstances...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "..Not exactly identical, but it's like you have to repeat a year at school, most things will be the same..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "..It's not god punishing you, it's yourself, your workings of power, organizing your lessons for you..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "..Just like you had a question about death, and here we were helping a couple of boys who had died. What happened after that answered most of your questions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, that's really odd isn't it? I was feeling bad when I found you, but after i watched you, I feel better. Now I know they'll be okay."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled "So we managed to provide the right therapy for you huh?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yep! I'll stop feeling guilty. It's probably just my catholic upbringing. Hey, how do you guys finish each other's sentences like that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Telepathy. We've become used to it. We are going to check out a few things in this shadow, you want to tag along?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sure! I'm always learning things from you guys."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We floated into the sky to look down on everything. Over there was a walled town that had to be York, with the road running south through the gates, across the moors through a number of small villages, past the battlefield and on south. The town had grown so that much of it now sprawled outside the medieval walls. Running close by was the single railway line, a silver thread that tended to take a straighter line, skirting villages and crossing the road in several places.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "I've been wondering, those different regions, they're like different religions ideas of heaven and hell aren't they? You mentioned those Greek fields, and the other one that sounded like Valhalla..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I don't think any of us know which came first, the region, or the religion that regards that region as heaven or hell. People visit regions in dreams, they come back and tell people that's what heaven or hell is like, people believe it, and look for it when they die...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "..Other people teach things, and then when people die they expect to find what they were taught, so they create that environment. Like the angels with harps sitting on fluffy clouds..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "..Imladril told us a long time ago that those who believe in something are never too shocked by what they find after they die, because they expect to see something. Those who believe that there is nothing to survive death are the worst off, because they shut themselves off from everything, and become lost in a black fog. None of the helpers can reach them until they realize they still exist..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "..Reminds me of an old joke. Person dies, gets into the afterlife. A helper is showing them around, saying 'this region is for the buddhists, that region is for the anglicans, this one is for the catholics...' and so on. Then the helper says 'you can visit any of these regions, but don't go near that one over there behind the fog bank.' Deceased person asks 'Why?'. The helper says 'Oh, that one's for the born again christians, they think they're the only ones up here.' Of course, you can insert the name of any religion you want to slander."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz smiled "I think I've heard that one before danny. But it's sort of appropriate isn't it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In the distance we spotted many campfires of soldiers camped around the grounds of a country estate. "This could be Cromwell's headquarters."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We floated down, skimmed over the camp. The manor had extensive grounds laid out as formal gardens with large lawns, and small lake, numerous stands of trees, and a large vegetable patch. There were many soldiers bivouacked around the grounds, we didn't stop, but headed toward the manor. The building was a mishmash of styles, one wing of yellow sandstone with small windows and crenelated top like some medieval castle, The middle section of lighter sandstone, with larger windows latticed with small diamond panes, the right wing of whitewashed brick, windows with larger panes of glass. The ground floor windows were all barred with iron trellis work.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We decided to explore each wing of the castle, and held a quick debate about which wing to start with. The old wing was closest to us, so we started there. I took nalini's hand, held out my other for liz, and then we floated up to the wall.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How do we get in?" liz asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Through the wall! Physical barriers can't stop us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But someone who knows what they are doing can also place astral barriers that coincide with the wall. Astral barriers are a lot harder for astral bodies to penetrate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's why the things in the university region are solid to us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Let's go."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Up close, the sandstone shimmered and danced like a mirage. I stretched out the hand that liz held, pressed it against the visible surface. There was a watery sensation as if the wall were a water curtain. Our hands passed into the barrier.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Kewl! It feels more like water."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "The trick is to will yourself forward. Otherwise your perception will tell you it's a wall, and your body won't move."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We drifted into the wall. Perceptually it was like moving through thick fog, or murkey water. For a moment there was nothing to see except the dancing yellow texture of the wall, along with a cold clammy feeling. Thenwe were through. Inside were faded tapestry hangings, unpolished wooden floors, a central coridor with dark wooden walls, and rooms with heavy doors opening off it. Most of the rooms seemed to be guest rooms with what we presumed were officers sleeping. Other rooms held ancient suits of armor, there was even a stockpile of crossbows. The downstairs quarters seemed to be mainly for servants, the rooms were smaller, dirtier, and in some we spied servants' livery.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The central wing contained larger rooms, a large room that looked like a banquet hall, and more corridors. The wooden floors were polished, and the walls were panelled in dark wood. The overall effect was dark and gloomy. There seemed to be a mixture of military and administrative types sleeping in the many rooms. The military types possessed body armor and tin hats, the others did not have such on display. The puritans could be determined because of their tall black hats.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The right wing was obviously the newest. There was dark wood wainscotting, covering only the lower section of the walls, the upper section being plastered and painted in bright colors. Most room had a pale ceiling and walls of a single color, such as yellow, light blue or green, or red. Many of the rooms were hung with paintings. Most of the peope sleeping here looked like administrative types. The bedrooms in this wing were more like separate apartments, with sitting rooms}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented as we passed through "This is the newest wing, these must be the most important people. I wonder which one is cromwell?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz commented "I think I will recognize him, I did see a painting of him. He had one of those faces you could remember easily."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We found several people whom we considered to be parliamentarians mainly because they were all at the end of the wing furthest from where it joined the central wing, in the largest bedrooms. Cromwell was surprisingly easy to recognize, a middle aged man, hair greying, a number of moles and warts on his face putting him with the ugly members of humanity.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now liz, if you look closely, you will see a thin blue gray chord coming from his body, and disappearing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh yeah! Is that the thing that connects with our dreaming body?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes! Now, we want to have a talk with Cromwell. We were hoping to talk with his cronies as well, but we may not have time now. So it goes hey?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How do we get to him? I mean, he's off somewhere dreaming."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He is, but he is tethered by the chord." Nalini replied. "You are correct that we don't know him well enough to simply visualize him and find him. Put your hands on me so I won't lose you." She let go my hand, then liz and i moved behind her, put our hands on her shoulders. She extender her hands and cupped them around the chord, not touching. "Now Liz, if you touch the chord of another dreamer, you almost always cause them to wake. What I am doing is getting close enough to feel its emanations without actually touching. Now I need to use my senses to feel ahead along the chord to where Cromwell's dreaming body is." We waited quietly for a few moments. I was linked with nalini and could feel what she was doing. Her hands seemed to elongate along the chord, and vanished off into the distance. "All right, I can feel him at the other end. let's go."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a momentary blur of speed, and we were in another abode of the dead. Choirs of angels sang in sweet voices, accompanied by majestic music. Brightly colored stained glass windows floated freely, while crowds of people dressed in flowing white robes mingled around. Cromwell was on his knees, his face filled with rapture, tears running from his eyes. He was wearing his black puritan garb. We backed away, not wanting to disturb him just yet. Nalini and I changed our rainment to white robes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented to Liz "You should change your own clothing to white robes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Just think about your clothes. This is dreaming, you know you can change things around. We don't want to stand out too much."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay." Nothing happened for perhaps thirty seconds, and then liz's form rippled, her clothing changed to a flowing white robe. "Why don't you interrupt him?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Because he may not appreciate it. We want him to be open and honest with us. We'll wait a little while and see what happens."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, you may not notice the difference, but all the angels seem to be constructs." I remarked. "They have no auras. Many of the purportedly dead people do not have auras either, and a few who do don't have human auras."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I can't see any auras."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Can you see any colors around our own forms?" I remarked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You're right danny. I noticed the angels right away, it's expected, but why the deceased? And what's with the non humans?" nalini wondered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Curiouser and curioser." I replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why?" liz asked. She seemed to be going cross-eyed staring at my arm.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Because these regions tend to attract spirits that are similar. The angels are like the waiters in the cafes back in the university region, they give the place its atmosphere. Danny, do you think this is fairly recent?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Probably, but why create constructs to resembled deceased? Is it that people want to feel there are crowds of other humans around them, or does someone have something to hide?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hmmm. It's possible some deceased want to create their idea of heaven, and they want other good christians around them, so they unconsciously create them, but why the non humans? If anything, there are more of them than humans."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz interrupted with "I get an impression of yellow and blue."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good. Listen, we won't do any exercises here, it might disturb something. But you are on the right track."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Some of the non humans were circling around us a bit like sharks. We three held hands again, and floated away, inspecting some of the stained glass windows. Nalini commented <<Sharks is a good analogy. I don't think they are that friendly toward us.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One of the non human humans approached us. There was no chord, meaning it wasn't a dreamer, but an inhabitant. The aura wasn't egg shaped like human auras, but elongated and flattened a bit like the top of a mushroom. The aura was filled with orange and yellow spikes that flckered like flame.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Aloud I commented "Let's all think thoughts of visiting the christian heaven, and feeling elated to be here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay." liz replied. "This stained glass is beautiful!" She's good that way, she seems to know when to simply follow orders and not ask questions.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The figure glided up to us. "Greetings. You are visiters here." He appeared to be a man in late middle age, greying shoulder length hair, greying spade beard, a sort of Charlton Heston playing Moses look about him. He beamed a smile.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's so wonderful here!" Nalini gushed. "The angels, the singing, it's beautiful!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is isn't it? This is the heaven promised in the scriptures. If you are religious enough in life, and follow all of god's strictures, you will come here after death."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All these people here must be the blessed, the saved?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh yes indeed, all these people are those who are saved. Let me show you more of our magnificent scenery."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We drifted past more stained glass, but nalini and i were subtly guiding us in a circle around cromwell. "May we ask who you were in life?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You may. I am saint Augustine."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<And I'm a monkey!>>"Ah, the blessed person who brought christianity to England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The very same sir. Let me show you this beautiful icon over here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We made sure that one of nalini or myself was facing cromwell. After a few minutes he finished praying and got to his feet. A Jesus like figure appeared beside him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh! We're all dressed in white; who is that man in black? Isn't black supposed to be an evil color?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh no, black is the sign of the penitent man. You three are alive, by rights you should be wearing black as well, because you cannot claim to be saved until the deciding moment of your deaths."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is true isn't it? How do we change into black?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He began to explain about thinking pennance, feeling sorry for out sins, letting sorrow fill our hearts. We drifted over to cromwell. It was exactly the sort of thing a normal dreamer might do, having noticed something. We tuned him down, and stared at cromwell.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He's crying, he must be penitent." nalini commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do you think he has many sins on his conscience?" I wondered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell was talking to the Jesus figure. "My lord, I am not worthy of you presence, I am but a miserable worm! I do your bidding, but it is so hard to keep to the straight and narrow. Temptation is rife!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We continued to deliberately talk in circles, much as ordinary dreamers might. We wanted to talk to cromwell, but we could not do that while these others were around.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He has many sins on his conscience."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He doesn't look like a worm."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The Jesus figure replied "Destroying the devil's handywork is often hard. I help where I can, but I need your physical body to make things happen. The king has been captured this night, you must try him tomorrow, and have him executed as soon as you can. He is one of satan's main servants, his execution will be a major blow to his master."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Who is the devil's sepent?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Whoever he is, he has to be pruned, and cut off."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The poor man has to fight with the devil?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell replied "Then it will be done my lord. But it may be hard to convince the others we must execute the king."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Never fear, my saints are talking with them, they will support you. But it must be done here, if you take him to london, his master will arrange his rescue." The Jesus figure replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is there no way the devil can be banished or destroyed?" we asked the purported st. Augustine.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell asked "But will not the devil harm us when we kill his servant?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The Jesus figure replied "He will try, but I will protect you. Do not burn him, the deed must be done swiftly, his head must be removed." He turned to look directly at us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Isn't that the Saviour?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm sure it is!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Jesus, let us worship you!" We fell to our knees, and bowed low. The Jesus figure turned back to his conversation with Cromwell.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell continued "We must convene parliament so the trial and execution is done legally."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But be swift about it, it must be done tomorrow, otherwise the devil will arrange to rescue him." the Jesus figure retorted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell bowed low. "Of course my lord! Your wish is my command." I think he meant it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You may go." The Jesus figure placed his right hand upon cromwell's head in benediction. He turned toward us again. "Augustine, have these three syncophants removed, they irritate me!" He removed his hand from cromwell.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The st. Augustine figure replied "With pleasure!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I grabbed liz and immediately left, returning to hover in cromwell's bedroom. The room itself was spartanly furnished, a large bed, a writing desk with a hard backed chair, a small cupboard, a small wash-stand holding a pitcher of water and a basin, and a cupboard or wardrobe. The walls bore light squares as if paintings had been recently removed. I suspected that a larger and more ornate wardrobe had also been removed, because the narrow one had a large light square on the wall beside it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz commented indignantly "They were all phonies!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded. Nalini replied "They aren't even human, they have some hidden agenda, and they are working through cromwell. He should be here any minute, we'll take him to the cafe and try to talk."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Almost on cue, Cromwell appeared in the bedroom. He saw us and said "Oh! What do you want?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were still all dressed in white, looking a lot like angels. Nalini replied "I'm sorry to disturb you lord cromwell, but we must talk with you urgently. This will not take long. Please come with us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded amiably. "Very well, but it will be dawn in an hour or so, I always rise before dawn."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Come liz. Let's go." Nalini and i took hold of his arms gently, and took us to the street of outdoor cafes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell looked around in wonder. Nalini asked "Would you sit and take tea or coffee, or would you prefer to walk the gardens?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am not immune to the beauty of god's creation. I think I should like to walk the gardens a little. Where is this?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is part of the holy city. Sir, you are a pious and godly man. May I begin by asking you a few questions." Nalini asked. We crossed the street towards the garden.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Certainly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I let nalini turn on the charm, and floated beside liz. One of those truncated telegraph poles was cruising near by, I beckoned it over. "Can you transform to look like us and come with us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I can. How is this?" It resembled a beautiful angel, with blond shoulder length hair, blue eyes, pale skin and white rainment. Its voice was light, neither male nor female, but possessing qualities of both.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would like to ask you some questions about a place we visited inadvertently."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Can you picture it for me?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I ran my mind back over the place, and created images in my mind as i would if i wished to share them telepathically with nalini. The guide would see them just as clearly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah. The region resembles one of your versions of heaven, but it is not a human creation. As you noted, most of the inhabitants are constructs. Those other creatures are inimical to humans. I am surprised they did not fall upon you and devour you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They can do that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They can. They are vampiric creatures, who thrive on the strong emotions of fear and hate, draining you in the process. They can devour your dreaming bodies, draining them of their energy until they dissipate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What happens then? Our dreaming bodies survive death of the physical body."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is called the Final Death. Your physical body would be untenanted but alive, an entity such as they could inhabit it for a time. Their vibrations are not compatible, and the human body would die within days. Your dreaming body would die, and you would be reduced to your spirit body. That would be much reduced, and you would be forced to start over again. Your personality, all your memories would cease to exist. While a spark would continue, it would not be the you that stands before me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How dificult it is for them to do that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If they come to you, they must change their vibrations to match those of humans; that makes it almost impossible to drain a human. Instead they must drag that human back to their region by changing the vibrations of the human, and then they can drain that human. If they have created an environment for humans, they cannot drain those who enter there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Can they trap someone who does? Change their vibrations?" Liz asked first.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You all are reasonably safe, it is difficult to attack a dreamer who has control of their dreaming body. Someone who doesn't is a different matter. However, there are many predators out there, you are not truly safe unless you accept our offer. We are immune, if you stay with us, you would also be immune."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I had to chuckle at this "And lose our freedom to exist in our physical bodies? Lose our freedom to reincarnate? Methinks the price is somewhat high."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But your dreaming bodies would be free to roam anywhere, to visit places that are barred to you as you are, and they would be truly immortal."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I didn't reply to that. I would explain to liz later, that one day they would make such an offer to her, that she would have to reject their offer herself, that once rejected, the guides would be less visible, less interested in her doings.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So what do they want with cromwell?" I mused.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is a metter for speculation. I believe he is in a position to create a climate of fear and hatred. It is also possible they are the tools of some other entity. I can tell you nothing else."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You could investigate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I guess you would be helping humans then. Well thanks for what you've told us. You don't have to stay if you don't want to."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We had strolled across the park to a lake, fed by a small channel that lead to the river. Ducks, white and black swans, and some other water birds swam about. There was a gazebo near by with some seats. Nalini and cromwell were heading toward the gazebo.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I will stay out of curiosity. But first I would like to exchange energies with you, and perhaps the woman" it indicated nalini "in appreciation of the information I shared."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very well." We hugged for about thirty seconds, during which time there was an exchange of energies, something like a flow of watery electricity, and a lot like an orgasm.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What was all that about?" liz asked after I disengaged. Nalini was walking back with cromwell, who was staring in rapt wonderment at the angel.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I turned to Liz "I'll have to explain in detail later, but this is sharing and exchanging energies. You don't have enough to interest it yet, nalini and I do. It's something like an orgasm, it's what real sex should be about, where you and your partner raise energies and then exchange them. Hold still for a moment, I'll share a little with you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I hugged liz briefly, sharing some of the energies with her. She had very little to give back, but she shivered and made a little noise. "I see what you mean." Nalini and cromwell were almost with us. "I'll ask afterwards."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<She looked like she enjoyed that!>> nalini laughed at me. She turned ot the angel, and said aloud "Greetings holy angel. It is good to see you again." They hugged for about thirty seconds.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is good to see you again too nalini." the angel replied. When they broke the clinch, it turned to cromwell, offered its hand. "You will forgive me if I do not hug you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini moved behind cromwell, and hugged liz briefly as well. Liz looked surprised but pleased. Then she turned to me. <<Our turn.>> We hugged, but there wasn't time now for anything serious. That would probably have to wait until we woke up.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell looked more solid, brighter; I assumed the guide had given him some energy.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell turned to all of us. He seemed happy, but puzzled. "I am not accustomed to hugging, except with my children. I have always thought it unseemly between adults, except perhaps between husband and wife in private. I had not thought a holy angel would behave like that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The guide replied "Sir, you know little of angels. God is love, love is expressed by hugging. But I know you are not comfortable with such displays, therefor I offered you only my hand."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini said to me "Danny, I need your help to take with Lord Cromwell. You can explain things to him better than I can."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded. My own knowledge of the bible is better than nalini's, and to convince Cromwell, we would need to quote scripture at him. "Where have you got up to?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, he is aware that he is dreaming, that god has arranged this meeting in the spirit. We've talked a little about his hopes for England, but I have told him we wish to prevent further bloodshed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell turned to me. "I am well aware that people are dying in the fighting. I too would prefer to prevent further bloodshed. The civil war is not good for England, but we fight an evil disease, the disease must be burned out, otherwise the body will die of it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I indicated the gazebo. "Then let us sit here and talk on it. I know we all have limited time now, we might not cover everything tonight."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The guide remarked "I can arrange that the Lord Protector does not awaken until we have finished our discussion."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Within reason, please sir angel." cromwell replied. "I have duties to perform, I must arise by sunrise."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was marshalling my thoughts as we sat. "Surely your duty to god is paramount?" I asked mildly. This had to be done softly, without pressure. We had to lead him to certain conclusions, not bully him there.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell pursed his lips, inclined his head. "You are right of course. God has ordered this meeting, if that means I must sleep late to finish it, then that it god's will."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded. "I will endeavor to keep this meeting no longer than necessary. Firstly, I must quote St. Paul to you. 'Even satan can disguise himself as an angel of light'..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The second epistle to the corinthians, I believe."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded and continued "..and again 'For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, the powers of the prince of the air, against the forces of darkness'..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The epistle to the Ephesians, chapter 6 verse 12, although the words are slightly different from the King James text. That text is my guide, for I have put on my armor of god, to stand firm in battle against the evil one." His eyes were alight.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I smiled at him. "Knowing this, you should also know 'therefor you must test what ever is said to you in god's name against the holy word. If it conforms then it is true, but if it does not, then it is false'..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked thoughtful. "I have certainly heard that, but is it Corinthians, or perhaps Timothy?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think St. Paul writes similar words in several of his letters. But I must ask you to take that maxim to heart, to think on everything you have been advised, even by those you met earlier tonight, and carefully compare what you were told against scripture, to test whether it be truth."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked at me sharply. "I met with our Holy Savior earlier tonight. Surely you do not mean..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "My lord cromwell, god does not usually lead people by the hand, or by the nose like cattle. When he instructs, it is usually in parables, for those who have ears. He expects people to make their own minds up. He gave us free will, he created the evil one so that we could exercise our free will. If there were no free will, there would be no need of salvation." }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He had been nodding, not he wrinkled his brow. "That is an unusual idea, but I think you are correct. Without free will, we would be unable to choose evil, we would be unable to sin. So it follows that if there is salvation, we must be free to choose it, or to choose evil, and that implies the devil must exist."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded. I wanted him to do most of the hard work, partly because I could not always remember the reasoning, and partly because if he worked it out, he would understand, and likely agree.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And so the devil tries to persuade us to depart from the path of salvation. For the crude and the simple minded, he uses the pleasures of the flesh, but for those who are educated, and pious, he puts on a semblance of piety, and endeavors to corrupt our understanding from within. I am not permitted to say whether you met with the savior earlier, but I have to ask that you test everything he said against scripture, to determine whether it was indeed the savior, or the devil himself."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 His face looked pinched, narrowed, as if he would shut out what I was saying. "So, I may have met with Our Savior, or I may have met with the devil. How do I know you are not the devil, seeking to disuade me from doing god's holy work?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "On the surface, you don't know that. All I ask is that you hear what I say in good faith, and then test what I tell you against scripture. I am not asking you to do this now, but when you awaken, write down what you can remember, and then check those statements against your bible."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded, his face relaxing. "This is a deep consideration. But I must not be naive and assume that all dreams are from god. There can be no harm from checking against my bible. God's word will always be in accord with holy scripture."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He was still on side, listening. "There are more issues we must cover. I have to ask you some questions. Which is more important, the Old Testament, or the New Testament?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well sir, I do not hold with these modern notions that the new testament is all we need study. Both are the word of god, both are equally important."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Modern notion? I think it has been around since the time of the apostles. But perhaps I did not phrase my question correctly. I know you to be a pious man, do you follow all the prescriptions and proscriptions of the old testament, or those of the new testament, or both?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<What are you getting at?>> nalini thought at me.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Moving him away from the burnings and the inquisition.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why both of course sir! They are both god's holy word, they are both to be equally obeyed. Jesus said 'Not one jot nor tittle will pass away from this law' "}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded. "Certainly true. But sir, I believe that as a good christian, you do not follow all the strictures of the old testament. Let us considere leveticus, with its religious practices and dietry rules. Do you follow those?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He pursed his lips, looking a little testy. "I am not sure where you are leading. I do not follow the practices laid out in leveticus, although there are some who claim we should. I believe they are wrong. Is that what you are getting at?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded. "Good! This is important groundwork for what follows. Can you explain why we should not follow leveticus?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hmm, I think I see where you are leading. Leveticus is about jewish religious practices. They pertain to the old covenant, we have the new covenant, so we are exempt from those observances."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You are correct sir. Now, can you support your assertion from scripture?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked hard at me for a moment, sucked his lower lip, then said "Sir, I would need my bible at hand to support this properly, but I believe that in Acts there is a passage about allowing the gentiles into the christian faith. Until that time it had been for jews alone, and they still followed jewish law. Gentiles were exempted from following any jewish religious practices. St. Paul also writes at length in several of his epistles."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Romans is the one you are looking for, plus Hebrews. Paul writes at length about what became known as the circumcision debate. It was more much than a debate about physical circumcision, because to the jew circumcision stands for obediance to the law of the old testament. It is their symbol of the old covenant. I amsure you are aware of this." He nodded. "There are several important points you will also be aware of" I began ticking them off on my fingers.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "First, jewish law is about righteousness, not salvation. Jesus came to offer salvation because righteousness is not sufficient. Second, he was the sacrificial lamb under jewish law. The sin offering took away the sin, but it wasn't sufficient, because it had to be offered each week. God, in offering his son, made a blood sacrifice that took away all sin for all people, for all time. Another blood sacrifice is not needed. Third, God created a new covenant with this action, which swept away jewish law. If you follow jewish law, then you must flollow all of it, and be righteous, but you lose your salvation. If you would be saved, then you must accept god's offer, and depart from jewish law."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell was nodding. "I am aware of that reasoning. You put it very succinctly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Your knowledge of scripture makes that possible. The old testament is about the old covenant, and about being righteous, and about death for the non righteous. Compassion does not rate a mention. The new testament is about the new covenant, about salvation, and compassion."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell was nodding, but there was a light in his eyes that said he was hearing things in a way he hadn't quite heard before. "Well sir, perhaps you could tell me which parts of the old testament we should follow? Because you raise a thorny problem."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I smiled at him. "Sir, the old testament is to be read as god's old covenant, where he is the righteous god, the jealous god, the angry god. This is how he could be if we revert to that old covenant. There are many passages where god's pronouncements or behaviour conflicts with the new testament. Those passages have to be understood as not applying to christians, just as jewish law cannot apply to christians. Even the ten commandments sir..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's preposterous sir! Are you saying we abrogate the ten commandments?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No sir, we are not proposing to abrogate the ten commandments, but that they should be read in the light of the new testament, and the words of Jesus. But let me ask you how many people have died in your name? In direct contraconvention of the commandment 'thou shalt not kill'?" He looked angry, but he also looked as if he was forced to agree with me. "Sir, your whole campaign of rooting out evil, of burning witches..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We do not burn them sir, we hang them! We are not barbaric!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Witches that your inquisitors seek out with techniques they have learned from Torquemada and the spanish inquisition? Drop them bound in ponds, if they float they are witches, if they drown they are innocent? That is neither just nor compassionate." I spoke softly, deliberately, not wanting to anger him more than necessary. "Torture them till they confess, prick their moles until you find one that is less sensitive... sir, you have moles aplenty on your face, were you to be arreigned before your own witch inquisitors, they would declare you a witch. Innocent people are suffering, because their neighbours can claim their property if they are convicted. You are obeying the old testament, and disobeying the new! Our god is a loving father, not a cruel tyrant. You as lord protector must stand as loving father to all the people of england, not just those who are puritans."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 His anger was abating. "I admit I have felt misgivings about some of what has been happening, but the Lord commands in the old testament "thou shalt not suffer a witch to live'!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, they stand condemned because they break the first commandment. And it also says that adulterers must be stoned, along with all who break any of the other commandments. Would you stone all adulterers, all soldiers, all theives, any who ride upon an ass or horse on sunday, and all who report a witch, because they covet their neighbour's property? Must I remind you of Jesus' words? 'I give you two commandments. The first is...'" he joined in at this point, quoting with me "'...thou shalt love the lord thy god with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. The second is like the first. Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself'" he stopped quoting at this point. I continued "'from these two commandments hang the law and all the prophets'"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But we have always followed everything in the old testament, except for that which is obviously jewish religious practices."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Even when it does not accord with the teachings of jesus or the apostles." Earnestness crept into my voice. "Sir if you would truly reform your church and your faith, then you must read the old testament, and classify every pronouncement as either in accord with the new testament, and so to be observed, or as not in accord, and so to be read as jewish law no longer applicable. Jesus did not condemn people to death, he saved them, he forgave them their sins. The pharasees may have been evil, but jesus did not punish them, he waited for god to do so in god's own time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He snorted. "What you say about the old testament makes good sense, but it would take years to resolve every verse! Are you saying we should not condemn the witches and the devil worshippers?! They blight crops, they sour milk, they perform all manor of unspeakable acts!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I spoke slowly and deliberately. "God will judge each and every one of them. You have his sure promise of that in the new testament. Where public order is at stake, then may you judge them, but judge them for the crime they commit, on good evidence, not on hearsay. Many so called witches are midwives, who also prepare a few herbs to help heal the sick. You would not comdemn the physician or the apothecary as witches, so why condemn the midwives?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Are you saying that many who have been condemned as witches or devil worshippers are not guilty?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes sir, many of them are innocent, their cries go up before god. They are condemned because they are old, or catholic, or jewish, or foreign, or disliked by their village. The village idiot is condemned, the local land holder is condemned by his tenants, the young girl in a fit of hysteria throws herself at a good puritan, he refuses her advances, she denounces him, he is condemned, she is free. The whole witch inquisition is a mockery, and a travesty of justice."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Surely not sir! My inquisitors are supposed to inquire most carefully, and sift the evidence. No witch is condemned unless she or he confesses."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "A confession that is extracted with pain, or by depriving them of sleep for days, and badgering them until they do not know what they are doing. England has a tradition that a person is innocent until proven guilty. A judge must be a shrewd man to determine what the witnesses will gain by a conviction. Yet your laws reward their accusers with the property of the condemned. Any judge will tell you this will bring out many false accusations."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He was beginning to look less sure of himself. "There could be some truth in what you say. I must look into it. It would be terrible of some of those who have been condemned were convicted on false evidence. I did no really want to be Lord Protector, you know. I have tried to remove evil from this land, and make it a godly place."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is a noble endeavor, but please beware self righteousness. Every person must fight their own fight with the devil. Each person must reject the devil themselves, you cannot reject the devil on behalf of anyone else. You can make the land a godly place, but you cannot achieve it by banishing evil, you can only achieve it by teaching people the christian way. You cannot banish evil from the land, but you can teach people to banish evil from their own hearts."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He was nodding at most of what I said. "Why do you claim we cannot banish evil from the land?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The devil is set there with god's permission, of that you may be sure. He has leave to tempt people, that they may exercise their own free will. God wants each and everyone of us to reject the devil and his works, but if you banish the devil, no one would know of him, they would have no choice. They could not decide to reject the devil, they could not be saved."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I have heard discussions along that line before. Your premis may be correct. Are you saying we should not root out evil? How can rooting out the devil's works be bad? How else can we prove we have rejected him?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You do not need to prove it to your fellow men. God sees what is in your heart. Trying to remove evil people, and evil practices is commendable, but when you use the devil's own techniques then the innocent suffer, while most of the guilty go free. God will judge everyone, you do not need to follow the catholic practice of burning evil doers in the hope of saving them from the fires of hell...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sir, we do not burn them!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But I think you take my point. Except for the maintenance of good order, you should not be judging and condemning others, because that is god's prerogative. Your duty as a christian is to let them be, and show them by your own example why they should come to jesus of their own free will, and ask for forgiveness and salvation. By killing them, you deny them the chance of salvation, and that itself is a heinous crime. Thou shalt not kill! Love thy neighbour as thyself!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked stricken, which told me what I was saying was striking home. Many modern aspects of theology were probably novel ideas to him. "But witches cause harm, as do devil worshippers!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Judge them by the harm they cause. Taking a life is a very serious consideration. Every time you take the life of someone who is not saved, you take it upon yourself to deny that person salvation. God will call you to account for each life. Think very carefully before doing so. You must show compassion if you would be christian. The inquisition must be dismantled, the civil war must be stopped, the persecution of non puritans must also be stopped. None of that is in accord with being a christian. You use the devil's methods."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked thoughtful and sad. "Our savior was called the Prince of Peace. 'Blessed are the peacemakers' he said. But the one I met earlier told me that the war was against evil, and must continue until the last evil doer is killed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'Let he who is without sin cast the first stone.'.  and when none condemned her, he told her 'Neither do I condemn you. Go and sin no more.'"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Have I been a fool, a tool of the evil one? Many things that have happened do not seem to stand up against jesus' own words." He was shaking his head.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "None of us are perfect, but if we make mistakes, the correct thing to do is to acknowledge them, and set them to right. The evil thing is to cover them up, or behave as if they were right."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "My Lord Cromwell, you will wake soon. I urge you to write down as much as you can remember, as soon as you wake. Then you may evaluate what you have been told in the light of the scripture."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked wistful, thoughtful. "You have given me much food for thought. I disagree with much of what you have said, but somehow I feel that what you have said is in accord with scripture. It is possible that we have done much harm while trying to do good. I shall think on it, I shall pray for guidance, I shall consult my bible. If harm has been done, then I shall undo it. You maybe sure that I will always base my actions on scripture."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The guide interrupted. "It is time for Lord Cromwell to wake up now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We thanked him for his time, and then he vanished. It would be time for us to wake up, seeing that the shadow we were staying in was ahead of cromwell's shadow.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I sighed with relief. Nalini praised me "That was well done danny. He is partly convinced."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "At least he is open minded enough to consider he may be wrong."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz commented "Jeez danny, did you ever think of being a priest? You'd make old father Ryan proud of you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shook my head. "I always used to argue with them. But I guess I soaked up enough in my theology classes. I used to be able to toss in more quotes, but I'm slowly forgetting them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So does this mean he'll stop the civil war, and the witch inquisition?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I both shook our heads. "He may remember nothing. He may remember everything, but dismiss it as just a dream. All we have really proven is that he is not a monster, he is trying to be a good man. That means we can work with him...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But he is being guided by those things masquerading as Jesus and the saints." I added. "You both heard what the guide said about them. They have some hidden agenda behind all this, they will not allow us to stop him without a fight. We will have our work cut out, and it will be dangerous."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "Without those creatures, we could influence cromwell and probably convince him he is on a wrong path. Prospero could negotiate with them and king Charles, and we could all live happily ever after." She made a face. "One of my beefs with korum was he was always off saving the world! Once I broke up with him I thought I was done with all that. This is the second time danny and I have been dragged into an adventure. Shit!" She wasn't upset, merely sounding off.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I snorted "Maybe we should blame prospero? Or paula? We've had little adventures with just the two of us, but they've both been involved in the big ones."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "You see liz, danny and I would possibly gone as far as rescuing prince rupert, but then we would have left him to his own devices, and gone on to Aquilonia."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added half joking "Maybe there is some sort of critical mass? The two of us are below that threshhold, but with three or more we're over it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "But nalini, didn't you tell me that this sort of thing went with becoming a sorcerer? Something about the workings of power?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini nodded. "Unfortunately it does. You develop power, you travel through shadows, you will cross places where your power can make a difference. That mysterious world out there will ask you to make a difference. You can choose to walk on by, but we choose to repay... what ever it is, we choose to repay by helping, and trying to make that difference. We have to get back, have a council of war with the others. We'll see you at breakfast. Don't forget what you've seen!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We woke not long after sunrise, implying that in this shadow time moved more slowly than in cromwell's. We put ourselves first for a while, and made love before we washed, dressed and descended for breakfast.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ###}}