{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Cambria-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi284\ri-597\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32\b1\i0 Chapter}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  4}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When we arrived for breakfast, Liz and Rupert were already there. Liz was eating a bowl of fruit, Rupert was eating bread rolls spread with honey, and had a large cup of milky coffee. They were talking desultorily. I wondered what she had told him of last night.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince rupert looked up, greeted us and then said "Liz tells me that you have news."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We do. Has she told you anything?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, I only told him you had news." Liz replied in his stead.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's good liz. Rupert, we will get some breakfast, and then tell you. I would prefer to wait for paula and prospero, assuming they will be here soon." nalini replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I helped myself to fruit, noodles and coffee. Nalini eshewed the noodles, and went for a rice dish. There was a smorgasbord of small steamed things like dim sims and buns, several noodle dishes, two rice dishes, a large mess of scrambled eggs with cheese and soy sauce, and a large basket of bread rolls. There were no cereals. I spooned a dollop of eggs onto my noodles.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We passed paula and prospero on our way back to our table. They were both looking pleased with themselves, giving me a hint that they were late for the same reason nalini and I were late.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero returned carrying a laden tray. He had taken one of every steamed thing he could find, plus small helpings of noodles, rice and eggs. "Prospero, could you fit any more on the tray? I'm sure you must have left something behind."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He grinned at me "I'm sure I have too, but this is probably more than I can eat as it is. I have to keep my strength up though, and I can't pass up an opportunity to taste different gourmet delights."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "If you eat all that, you'll start growing sideways!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey! You keep telling us that breakfast is the most important meal."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula returned with a plate of bread rolls. "There's no cereal!" she complained. She broke a roll and began spreading jam on it from one of the small pots on the table.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It probably hasn't been invented here yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked at her with a puzzled expression. "The bread is made from wheat, and perhaps corn, the noodles are also made from wheat or rice, and there is rice itself. How can you say there are no cereals?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula giggled, and then explained about breakfast cereal to rupert. She went into such detail that prospero finnaly complained "Stop it paula, you're making me hungry!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We kept the others in suspense until nalini and I had finished the major part of our breakfast. Nalini eats less than I do, so she started first.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Danny and I went dreaming last night, and we discovered a few things. Firstly, king charles was captured while we slept, and is being conveyed to Cromwell's manor..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We must do something right away!" rupert exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We will, as soon as we decide what to do. There is much more to tell. Secondly, there are a number of beings... er... we might just call them demons, that have contacted Cromwell, and give him orders. They masquerade as jesus and his apostles. They have ordered Cromwell to have the king executed as soon as possible. This will be either late today, or early tomorrow morning."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a look of horror on Rupert's face. "May god forbid!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "They also influence the rest of the gang of seven that control the rump parliament. Comwell will insist that things are done legally, so there must be a trial for treason and witchcraft. That will probably happen today, which is why the execution may not take place until tomorrow morning."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She turned to me "We also had a long talk with Cromwell, or at least danny did..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Essentially we tried to convince him his current actions are contrary to his scriptures, and that what he thinks are jesus and his apostles are really demons. He is not convinced, but we have sown the seeds of doubt. If he can be convinced, he will stop the civil war, dismantle the inquisition, and do what he can to stop the persecution. But that won't happen while those creatures can influence him. They will do what they can to stop us, once they become aware of us. I don't think they are aware of us yet, but they feel our interference. Cromwell was told to have the trial at his manor, because if he had the king transported to london, we would rescue him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We should be off right away! It is half a day's ride to Cromwell's manor, our best chance of rescuing the king is while he is on the road."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini shook her head. "We can get to Cromwell's manor in ten or fifteen minutes from here. Our best chance of rescuing him is not on the road, where there will be a heavy escort, but from his prison cell, where they will be least expecting it. Don't worry prince rupert, we will rescue him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince rupert nodded. "Very well, I accept your assurances."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "What is your assessment of cromwell?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He's pious, but basically decent. I'd say he's undergoing some soul searching right now, because he will be realizing that what he has been doing is not in accord with his beliefs. It will take more work, but I think he can be persuaded. Provided we can get rid of those other entities."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So you think he would negotiate?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I believe so. He gave me the impression he was not happy with the bloodshed and the witch inquisition."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "How dangerous are those other entities?" It was possible she did not remember all the details of last night.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I spoke with one of the guides, it seemed to think that they could drain us and kill us, but while they masquerade as humans they are relatively harmless."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, this is some new meaning of the word harmless" prospero quipped "one with which I am not familiar."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "To interact with humans, they must change their vibrations or ours. If they come to us, they change theirs, and so render themselves relatively harmless. If they drag us back to their region, they must change ours, and then they can destroy us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hmmm, I think I prefer battling soldiers. At least you can see what you are up against."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think it will be Danny and I battling those creatures. You will be the one who negotiates the peace treaty."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince rupert asked "If you are going to Cromwell's manor, I must go somewhere else. Many there would recognize me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We can make you look different enough that you will not be recognized. However, when it comes time to act, we might leave you with Liz. It will be safer for both of you to be out of the way when the action starts. The four of us can shadow shift, you two cannot, we will find an appropriate shadow, and leave you there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "Could we also capture Cromwell and the er.. gang of seven?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We could. There would be risks of course, but I think danny and can recognize most of them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The discussion continued over coffee for perhaps half an hour before we checked out of the hotel. We rode a little way down the street before nalini and i worked on rupert to make him appear different. This time we lent him a mirror so he could see himself.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He shook his head in amazement "I would never have believed this possible! I don't feel any different though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, it's an illusion. You are still the same, but for the next twelve hours or people will see you like this. It'll wear off after that." I replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "We must give you a different name, and invent a history for you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I shall call myself Jan, a dutch engineer. I am here studying the English railway system, for.... er... who are you supposed to be employed by?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The Viceroy of india." nalini replied promptly. "That is a great idea, studying the railway system. India could certainly benefit from a railway. Many of the roads are impassible in the monsoon season, and in many areas the roads are almost non existent."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do they have a viceroy here?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe it's ony a govenor, but I don't think anyone will know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How about the king of Aquilonia?" prospero asked. "We all know him, except for you rupert. Aquilonia is north of india, toward russia and china."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We argued back and forth, but prospero and rupert argued for being foreign nobles, holding it safer than anything else.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He maintained "Why not stick closely to the truth? I am the diplomatic envoy from aquilonia, you are my entourage. Prince rupert can by my cousin Yanos, the Earl of Bosna."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That settled, we performed some preparations, and then rode of through shadow, arriving outside the gates of Cromwell's manor about fifteen minutes later. Nalini and I rode at the front, Prospero and Paula behind us, with rupert and liz behind them. Guards challenged us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I put on a bored voice and told them "We are the diplomatic mission from aquilonia, here to present our credentials to the lord protector. Please arrange for admittance, and lodgings for us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The guards looked at each other. One of the guards gulped and made a noise.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Don't just stand there soldier! If you do not have the authority to admit us, then fetch someone who does!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh yes sir!" one of the guards ran off, returned a few minutes later with the captain, who was still strapping his helmet on.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Captain Winters at your service sir. How may I help you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good day to you captain. I am the Earl of Bendora," the captain stiffened slightly "Our party is the diplomatic mission from Aquilonia. We are here on official business. We will need to speak with the Lord Protector and possibly some of the parliamentarians. We will need accomodation for several nights. Would you be so kind as to allow us entry, and contact whomever is responsible for arranging this?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Er.. Yes sir. Er... this is a formality of course, but would you have a letter of commission or something to confirm this?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course captain." I turned to nalini, who took a folded sheet of paper from her saddle bag. We had prepared this earlier with sorcery, after we had decided on this course of action. She handed it to the captain, who unfolded it, glanced at the official looking writing with the big crest, and handed it back. It occurred to me that he that he probably could not read well, or didn't want to be making trouble.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you sir. We will arrange all this." He turned and barked orders to one of the guards. "Fetch my horse, and send a runner to notify the manor we need to arrange accomodation for our guests. Have someone meet us at the entrance. And tell them they're foreign nobles, diplomats." We waited until the soldier returned with a saddled horse.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The captain mounted, and rode beside me, and lead us along the driveway for perhaps a kilometer and a half to the manor house.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If you don't mind me saying, you travel with a small party."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It attracts less attention this way. We do not seem like attractive targets for theives, it is easier to book passage on boats, and find accomodation."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But isn't that dangerous? Especially travelling with women?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Only if we travel through wild areas. We are all armed, and we all know how to use our weapons."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Even the er... ladies sir?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I lent towards him and said conspiratorially "The lady immediately behind me has killed more than one hundred people in combat. She is a fearsome warrior."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned round to look. Nalini smiled at him, her 'smile on the face of the tiger' expression as she terms it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She does look ferocious doesn't she? Are there many like that over there?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She is the daughter of the Maharajah of delhi, she was trained from an early age. She was in charge of her father's bodyguard. Now she is mine." I let him ponder exactly what that might mean.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What is aquilonia like?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We told him tales of exotic cities, of Maharajahs with jewelled clothes, of elephants and peacocks, and more. Nalini probably told more tales than I did.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Eventually we reached the manor. Several flunkies were there to greet us. I made arrangements for rooms, with drawing rooms for office space. The head flunky looked us over, and almost sniffed. "Sir, it is usual for servants to stay in servants quarters."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, my good man!" Prospero drew himself up, placed a hand on the flunky's shoulder, and spoke in that bored affected drawl that seems to come so naturally to aristocrats. "My entourage does not include servants in the common sense. We expect you to provide servants for us. I am Prospero, duke of Poitain, the diplomatic envoy from Aquilonia, and this good lady is my wife. The gentlemen with me are my cousins. This is the earl of Bendora and his wife, she is a princess from delhi in India. This is her cousin, and this is my cousin the earl of Bosna. Now, if you would be so kind as to arrange our accomodation?" His tone of voice let it be known that he was accustomed to instant obediance.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The flunky acquiesced. Grooms came to take our horses. Three liveried footmen took our bags and followed us as the chamberlain us through the ground floor of the central wing where he assigned two suites, each with two bedrooms opening onto a large drawing room. The two suites were not side by side, but were close by.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maids scurried around opening shutters, making beds and airing the rooms. The chaimberlain informed us "I'm afraid you have come at a time when the lord protector is very busy. You may not be able to see him for days, perhaps weeks. Would you like to meet with one of his deputies?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No. You are not a diplomat, you would not appreciate that meeting with a deputy is a subtle snub. We will present our credentials to the Lord Protector first. If you would be so good as to inform him that the delegation from aquilonia is here to see him, we will happily await his pleasure. If that takes weeks, then so be it. However, while we are waiting, should his deputies or other officials wish to hold informal meetings with us, then we will be happy to meet with them. Provided of course that it is understood that they are informal meetings. Official talks cannot begin until we have presented our credentials."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He bowed "I will convey that sir." and left, though the servants fussed around for a while. We settled in, unpacking a few things, and fetching more things to put on the desks so we looked as if we had paperwork. Nalini and I fetched six copies of the king James version of the bible so that each of us would have a copy with us. They weren't new, most looked well worn. We weren't sure exactly where they had come from, and it is something we don't like doing except in emergencies. We also fetched a safe, into which we placed a bag containing our high tech stuff such as nalini's laptop, cameras, torches and the like.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I gathered everyone together and said "There is every likelihood they will search our rooms and our luggage. Keep your valuables with you at all times, or in the safe. Now we're here, we should walk around and familiarize ourselves with the grounds, it's likely we will be here for some days. Don't do anything to make them suspicious of us, and try to stay in pairs."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And give them a chance to search our luggage?" prospero inquired.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes. Meet back here in two hours."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I walked around and talked to soldiers, to grooms, some of the kitchen hands in the main kitchen where we scrounged some food. We had to be careful what we asked, because our questions were sure to be reported on.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 However, if you don't ask direct questions, but spend time getting to know people, it's surprising what they will volumteer.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The grooms told us that two heavy coaches with dragoon escorts had arrived a few hours before we had. Four occupants had been hooded and with their hands bound. They had been speculating about who they might have been. Nalini and i set the cat amongst the pidgeons by suggesting that one of them might have been the king.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The soldiers we spoke with did not mention the coaches, but did say that york would surrender today, handing over the royalists sheltering within its walls. They speculated about whether the king had escaped, or would be handed over.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At first the kitchen hands were not talkative. We thought this was because they thought we were nobles, so I told them "We are bodyguards of the envoy from aquilonia. We only arrived an hour ago."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Wo', bofe ov ya?" asked the scullery maid as she placed bowls of thick soup in front of us. Her north country accent could be cut with a knife.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, both of us are body guards."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Cor! Oo'd believe I seen a woman body guard?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied. "Where we come from, women share the fighting with menfolk." She unstrapped her sword from her back, laid it on the table. "I know how to use this."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Cor miss, ever kill anyone?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm nalini, this is my companion danny. Please call us by our names. Yes, we've killed a few people in our time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They told us their names. We talked for some time about what we'd done, where we'd been, suitably edited of course. We asked a few questions about the kitchen hands in return, leading up to "You must get a lot of guests here then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Busiest we've ever been."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Some of them are trouble, let me tell you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, all pious like in public, but take food to their rooms and they'll feel you up before you know it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, them religious ones is the worst!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini chuckled evilly. "They wouldn't be so quick after i'd broken their arms!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We talked for some time about their guests. We'd shared information about ourselves, they now were happy to tell us about who was staying, where they were, and what strange or nasty habits they had. It was easy to learn who we should be targeting later.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One of them volunteered. "We got four what come in this morning, theys prisoners or somethin'"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How can you tell?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, they got guards inside and outside their rooms."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, we done up a late breakfast for them, and kate and I had to take it in on trays. There's two guards outside, and another two inside."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They must be important then." nalini suggested. That lead to a round of speculation about who they might be. During that we suggested that one might be the king, and we managed to find out roughly where they were being held - the top floor of the old wing, where the windows were narrow slits too small for anyone to pass through, and the walls were several feet thick.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We finished our meal, and headed back to our rooms. The others were all there waiting for us. We checked a few things and discovered that our luggage had been disturbed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How can you tell?" liz asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I tapped the side of my nose and winked. Nalini replied "I placed a couple of strands of my hair in certain places in our luggage. It isn't there now. They've managed to put things back more or less where they were, so they didn't want us to know. I daresay there is someone eavesdropping on us right now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "I'm aware of that trick, but as a diplomatic envoy, I always assume that there are spies twenty four hours a day, and that everything is searched when ever they have a chance."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, we have nothing to hide."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You guys hungry?" They all assented. "Okay, let's go rustle up some food."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We left again, this time walking down the path toward the orchard. Once there, we shifted twice, coming to a small meadow with some flat topped boulders. The sky had shaded from pale pink to russet. Rupert commented "I did not say anything when we were walking away from the house, because I suspected you intended to do something like this. We can talk freely here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's right. We shouldn't stay too long though. Did you people discover anything?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert started "I can tell you a lot about the troop dispositions, I can tell you that the king and three others arrived this morning, I can tell you that half the army has travelled to accept the surrender of York, and will be bringing back more royalist prisoners tonight."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz added "We were careful not to ask too many questions, we don't want to be arrested as spies. We saw a lot of the grounds though, and there are lots of troops camped around and even more camped outside."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "Paula and I went for a walk, we spoke to some of the soldiers, and also found that the general gossip is the king is here. But then we went in search of a parliamentarian. We talked for a while about how the parliament works, and we discovered that the parliamentary leaders, I think they are those we are calling the gang of seven, will sit to try the king for treason and witchcraft this afternoon. The man we spoke with was unsure whether he would be included. He was a puritan, he seemed to feel it was his right."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula added "We heard that there are three others with the king, they are going to be tried as well, but we don't know whether they'll tried with the king, or afterwards. Hey guys, I had to stand there and look interested while they talked about theories of parliament for ages!" Looking at her now I realized she had removed her nose ring.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, it's been productive. We found out the four are being held in a suite of rooms in the old wing, with guards inside and out side. It will probably be easiest to snatch them tonight, but that may depend on how long they take to try him today. I'm not in favor of crashing the trial, there will be a lot of guards."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then again, the gang of seven will be there, we could capture all of them in one swoop!" prospero suggested.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert nodded. "It is riskier, but if we can accomplish that we could end the civil war!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Maybe I'm getting old, I'm in favor of the lower risk of rescuing him tonight. But we will reconoitre this afternoon to see if there are suitable shadows from which we can gain access to the court room, and determine how many guards there are. If there aren't too many, we will give it a try."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Don't forget there will be other prisoners arriving tonight. We should be considering rescuing them as well. If we snatch the king at night, no one need know, and we can then rescue the others." I commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "The chances are someone will raise the alarm, unless we can somehow know them out and snatch them. If you grab someone who is sleeping, they will wake up in surprise, and call out. Think about it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But if we do manage to snatch them all, the other prisoners will still be prisoners." I observed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then we can come back later for them. If we walk out behind guards, take important people hostage, we should be able to get in and out very quickly." prospero countered. "A surgical strike I think it's termed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You've been watching too much news!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We headed back, discovered from the kitchen that the main hall was serving lunch for the guests, so we sauntered in and grabbed a table. The food was fairly plain fare - vegetable soup which nalini and I had eaten in the kitchen earlier, bread and cheese, plus some sort of roast meat with boiled potatoes and mushy boiled vegetables. There were also jugs of dark brown ale.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I had more soup, with bread and cheese. The ale was good, as was the bread and cheese. The soup was bland. Rupert ate with an appetite, the others complained about the food.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It needs salt!" liz commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula added "Erk, the vegies are all mushy!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero tried the soup, the meat and the vegetables with a look of distaste on his face. "Do you think they had the kitchen hand prepare this food? Surely no chef could produce anything this bad!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I chuckled. Paula said "Huh! This is typical English food."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "I don't think they use the term chef here, but they would have cooks. I agree with paula, this is typical english food, all mushy and with no flavor."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Prospero, there's a joke back home about how heaven has french chefs, english police, and german engineers, while hell has english chefs, german police and italian engineers. The english are very proud of their cooking, they claim the food is naturally flavored, with no garlic,herbs or spices to get in the way of the taste experience. You will also observe how easy it is for people with no teeth to eat this stuff. Of course, among the non english, english chefs have the reputation of being the worst in the world."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He shook his head sadly. "I have encountered food this bad before, but only when on army field trips. That a nation should proudly claim this as the best they can offer, staggers me!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert shrugged. "You get used to it. Army food often isn't much better."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "True, though I think our army would mutiny if you fed them food like this. But you don't serve army field rations to guests of the government, especially foreign nobles, unless they are in the field with the army."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The food at the court was better, but most of the cooks were english. The king did have four or five french chefs who would prepare better food for guests, but many of the english do not like food with flavorings. The french chef might prepare a dish with garlic, and most of the nobles would avoid it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero finally gave up on the food in disgust. "My taste buds are rebelling! I'm going to play the diplomat, and go around the room talking to people." With that he stood up and walked over to the next table, where he started talking to people.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert watched him, then remarked "We should all be doing that, except that I feel people will recognize me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula replied "Prospero's like that back home. He's a senior diplomat, so of course he talks to people at any opportunity. He's always finding out who is influential, what they think and so on. I've set him up a computerized card index system so he can keep tabs on everyone. That way if he's meeting the ambassador from upper woop woop, he can read up on him, how many children he has, whether his wife likes flower arranging and all that stuff, and ask him personal questions. He thinks it's a wonderful idea!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Um... computerized? What are you doing for electricity?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Silly, have you forgotten that nalini gave us a solar powered lap top? It keeps itself charged up during the day, and it runs off batteries at night. With power saving and so on, you can leave it on all night without running flat."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We had bought several solar powered lap tops in nalini's home shadow, we even carried one with us now. Nalini needed one for the work she still did for clients in her home shadow, but I found it less useful simply because it would not talk to any known device in my home shadow.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert had been turning his head, looking around the room. "I cannot help feeling that people are staring at me, that they will recognize me any moment and raise the alarm."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, that's just normal paranoia!" liz commented. Rupert looked puzzled.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "I don't think they are looking at you, but at all of us because we dress differently, and liz and i in particular because of our skin color. We are used to it. I think you could sit here with your normal face, and people would not see it because you are with us, and part of out group. Even people that know you might simply remark that you look like someone they know. People see what they expect to see. You expect them to look at you, so that is what you see."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After lunch, nalini and i issued instructions to the others to be prepared to move at a moment's notice. Then we retired to our room, with instructions not to be disturbed. We had to return to the dreaming to reconoitre what was happening, where the shadows were. We needed access to the second floor, where the prisoners were, and we needed access to the large ground floor room that was being used as the parliament room, and had now become a court room. We needed a safe shadow in which to regroup.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We returned after about an hour. The others were all gathered in our drawing room, with their packs. Prospero spoke quietly "There's a guard at our door."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They don't trust us then. Do we have everything here?" The others nodded. "Okay, let's shift."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini thought to prop a chair behind the door in such a way that it prevented the door from opening.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We shouldered our packs, grabbed our weapons, and walked across the drawing room, shifting before we encountered the door. We were in another room, facing the door. I opened the door, we walked into the corridor and shifted again to yet another building, this time decrepit, walls with holes, floorboards rotting, dust and mildew everywhere. Then we shifted into an immense cavern, a broad flat expanse of blue tiles beneath us, blue green light filtering from huge glass panels overhead.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Next came a flattened hilltop under cloudy lavender skies. This was the partly filled in caldera of an extinct volcano. A stand of eucalypts grew nearby, and a small stream ran from a lake, through a V shaped gouge and down the slope. A large flat rock sat supported on another, giving ample shade underneath. Some smaller boulders provided natural seats.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is fairly safe, no large predators that we can see. The snakes are poisonous, and there are scorpions, so don't go reaching into any hollows. We'll make this our base, this is where we will bring everyone."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "When are we starting the rescue Danny?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now. We'll start with the king's three companions, they are in their rooms. Rupert, we'll restore you to your normal appearance, and it will be you, me and nalini. We don't want more, there would be too many people. I'd like to pull this one off without alarming the guards, so we will do it one bedroom at a time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Actually, we'll take prospero with us, but he can wait in the next shadow. We don't want to alarm them too much."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We set off, arriving in the disused wing of a once great manor house. This corresponded closely with the wing in which the prisoners were being held, but we needed to watch our steps since the floorboards were rotting.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We positioned ourselves, then nalini, I and rupert shifted into the bedroom. There was a young man with brown shoulder length hair, waxed moustache and wearing velvet and lace sitting on a chair by the window reading a book. He looked up as we arrived, his face showing surprise. We all put our fingers to our lips, and walked over to him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert said softly "Robert, we are here to rescue you. Is there anything you must take with you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He shook his head. "Just my cloak."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Let's go then." He picked up his cloak, and we shifted back to where we had left prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Where are we? How did we get here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is prospero, the duke of poitain. He will explain things to you. We must rescue your friends."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini, rupert and I took up position at the third bedroom, where the other two were talking. I must admit my heart was racing just a little.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We walked in where two men were talking. One was sandy haired, perhaps mid twenties, while the other was dark haired and mid thirties. They stopped, surprise registering. Rupert said the same, and then we lead them back to the disused wing with with propsero and Robert. The whole process had taken about a minute.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We lead them rapidly back to the volcano crater. "Prince Rupert, we will leave you here with your friends for now. We should be back in half an hour or so with the king."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One of the young men with brown hair announced "If you go to rescue our king we will go with you!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shook my head. "I'm sorry, but you would be in the way. Prince Rupert can answer many of your questions. We will return." I hoped. What nalini and i hadn't told anyone else was that the creatures who were running cromwell were monitoring the trial, and would probably try to stop us. Failing that, they could easily follow us. We did not know their capabilities, they would undoubtedly try something.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Should any of us be killed, the others could walk through shadow, but if the four of us who could were somehow incapacitated, then liz, rupert and the others would be stranded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We gathered liz and paula, and walked through shadow to a huge ball room in the inhabited wing of the mansion that corresponded with cromwell's manor and the room where the king was being tried.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, you stay here with your gun. We will be bringing back the gang of seven, they may need threats to keep them in line." she nodded, took her gun out and cocked it. She looked tense.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The situation in the courtroom was that the king was manacled between two guards. Cromwell was seated by himself on the same side as the king, while the rest of the gang of seven sat at two long tables. Nalini had to remove the king's manacles, then shift out with him, minus the guards. The rest of us had to grab the gang of seven.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini took up her position, and began working on removing the manacles. What she had to do was fetch them here, then shift in, grab the king and return. I positioned prospero and paula, telling them "Each of you must grab two of the gang, and shift back here as soon as you grab hold of them. Then one of us, probably nalini or myself, must go back and grab cromwell."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They both nodded, looking tense. I continued "We will all shift in at the same time, so get ready. Once the manacles appear here, we will shift in. The quicker it is done, the safer we will be."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A minute later there was a clatter of chains on the floor. "Okay, let's go!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I could sense the shadow, and had a mind's eye impression of where things were. We would come in behind the chairs of the six, and would drag them back with us. If the chairs came with them, they would arrive sitting, otherwise they would arrive and fall over. We would be behind them, so they would be little danger to us in the first few moments.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i were in telepathic communication, as usual. We also had a link with paula, but that was tenuous. Prospero was on his own. I was positioned at the end nearest where cromwell was, so that nalini and i had the best chance of collecting him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We shifted in with rainbow effects. One of the puritans was speaking, raising his voice and ranting. Nalini grabbed the king, said "Excuse me your majesty." and vanished, leaving a rainbow after image. I clapped my hand on the shoulders of the two in front of me, grabbed and stepped back, shifting as i did. They arrived with chairs, and I immediately ran to where cromwell was. With my shadow shifting senses at full throttle, I would be less effective at fighting in one shadow, but I was also aware of five creatures bristling at us. The energy was surging through me, and I swatted at them as one might annoying flies. They scatterd and fled.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I burst back out as cromwell was rising to his feet. Prospero was a still there, but paula was fading in rainbows. I grabbed cromwell and stepped back into a rainbow, aware that surprised guards were now beginning to react, raising pikes and moving toward us. Nalini was fading in beside prospero. Cromwell and I arrived in the ballroom, and i jumped away from him in preparation to drawing my own gun. Pandemonium was just starting as everyone we'd snatched began exclaiming. Prospero faded in, followed by nalini.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Quiet everyone!" I thundered. We'd be attracting attention of the occupants with our noise. I waved my gun at the puritans. "Form up in twos! Now!" We would have to walk close with them to be able to shift them all, and nalini and i would have to shift in concert. "Prospero and nalini, at the front please, with cromwell between you. Your majesty, please stand here. Liz, on the other side of his majesty, and paula, fall in behind."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right, everyone start walking." nalini ordered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We started walking across the ballroom. preparing to shift. Just then a head poked around the further door, and a voice exclaimed "What the devil is going on here!!?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We faded out, leaving the querant to wonder at the chairs and the chains and our rainbow after image. We shifted into the ruined castle. This area had been burned, the roof had fallen in, leaving just the scarred walls and the rotted remains of the charred timbers. It was raining. We went back through the immense cavern, and then to the extinct volcano.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think everyone was talking at once, expostulating, asking questions.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini turned to prospero "All right prospero, they're all here. You can sort out the mess."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She turned back to me. "Those creatures will return soon enough. I wonder if they are a real threat?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We'll find out soon enough if they are. Otherwise, tonight we need to find out how to trash their little playground. What are we going to do with this lot?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She shook her head in exasperation. "If it were just the king and his men, we could take them back and release them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe we should do that anyway? Except with the puritans in chains?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She smiled. "Nice thought, but there's still the army, the civil war and the witch inquisition. That needs cromwell to dismantle it. Prospero won't settle for any less."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, he won't." I glanced over to where he was talking. "It's his show now. Look at him, he's in his element."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was standing on a small rock addressing everyone. He'd managed to quieten them down. The king and his men were standing in the shade of the eucalypt trees. The king was middle aged, with long brown hair permed in ringlets, and tied with small bows. Like his companions he wore lace and velvet, except that while they wore knee high riding boots, he wore silk stockings and dainty high heeled shoes such as women wear back home. The puritans stood closer to the large boulders, and all were dressed in black, with sensible low heeled shoes and tall black hats.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was talking "..have all betrayed your sacred trusts! Do any of you know what that sacred trust is?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a lengthening silence. One of the cavaliers called out "They deposed the king! Is that what you mean?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No! I am asking each one of you what your sacred trust is. If you cannot answer that, then you should not be in a position of authority." He singled out the king. "You sir are the king. Can you tell me what your sacred trust is, as king?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The cavalier who'd spoken before bristled. "Here! You cannot speak to his majesty like that!" The king put out his hand, waving for silence.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am the king, you are correct. But whom am I addressing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled. "I sir am Prospero, duke of Poitain. I am the right hand man of the King of Aquilonia, and his successor should he die without issue. We have had our civil war against a corrupt and degenerate king, and have set in place a regime that will ensure that the excesses that occurred under the old king can never be repeated. I thought our civil war was bad, but it is nothing compared with what I have seen in England. This war and the witch inquisition must stop!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was some rumbling about foreigners meddling in England's affairs from the puritans. He looked around, then spoke "Very well, first let me introduce my companions. The earl of Bendora, Lord Danny, and his wife the Princess Nalini." Cromwell looked hard at us, then started. "This is my wife the lady Paula, and this is Princess Nalini's cousin the lady Elizabeth. Now, what about yourselves? Prince Rupert I know, we rescued him earlier. King Charles I know by repute, as I know Lord Protector Cromwell by repute."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The others introduced themselves. The three cavaliers were all nobles: Tobias Villiers, Earl of Maitland, late twenties, slim, with blond hair and beard, Robert Devereux, Earl of Cessnock, about twenty, also slim, with shoulder length brown hair, and moustache, and Sir James Monck, Earl of GrantChester who was in his mid thirties, tending to portly, dark curly hair, goatee and waxed moustache.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Four of the puritans were also nobles: Sir Mark Fairfax, baron of Cameron, mid thirties, scottish accent, short dark hair, clean shaven, wiry, Matthew Carfax, Earl of Essex, mid forties, stout build, dark hair gone iron gray at the temples, thinning on top, Stephen Margrave, baron of Lansford, mid thirties, short sandy hair, medium build, and Henry Shelley, baron of Dorchester, late thirties, medium build, short brown hair, balding. The other two were rich merchants of some kind: Thomas Pride, mid thirties, dark hair, solid, but still fit looking, and Simon Lambert, late twenties, slim, fair haired.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It transpired that Earl Tobias was married to Sir Mark Fairfax's sister. It occured to me that this could make for some interesting fireworks over the next few days.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now why in god's name are we here?" one of the puritans demanded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "When can we go home?" another asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We rescued the king and his men to prevent a gross miscarriage of justice, where you so called men of god manufactured evidence so you could condemn these men to death. Does not your scripture expressly forbid such?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I interrupted with "'Thou shalt not bear false witness. Thou shalt not kill.'"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you danny." Prospero continued. "We brought the rest of you here so you could talk with one another, and settle your differences like good god fearing christians. Now, I wish to give all you gentlemen food for thought, after which we shall set off for Aquilonia. You shall be our guests for a short time, and then we will return all of you to England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He drew himself up. "Now, I shall be critical of all of you. First, the king. You, king Charles must bear first responsability for what has happened. The parliament would not have deposed you had you not been such a bad monarch. You have betrayed your sacred trust, I want you to tell all of us what your sacred trust as king is."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 King Charles blinked, pursed his lips. "I am the king, by right of birth. The authority of the king descends from god himself. All must obey me, my word is law. I... I am not sure what you mean by sacred trust."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero looked stern. "No, I did not think so. Had you known, you would not be now fleeing for your life in the midst of a civil war. Very well, I shall tell you, and you can think on my words. You are king, you are not a rack for fancy clothes and a crown, your office is not an excuse to spend the contents of the treasury on having a good time. You are not infalable, you do not have some exclusive access to Lord God Almighty to issue laws and proclamations. You are not there just to stop your nobles from killing each other. Hear me well. Your sacred trust is to all the people of England, to provide for the good order of the land, to provide that everyone has work, and food, clothing, all the necessities of life.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The nobles can provide for themselves, the common people cannot. Your sacred trust is to make just laws, to see that these laws apply to all people, that nobles, king and commoners alike are all subject to the same laws, and are treated equally before them. Your parliament is the voice of your people, to tell you what laws need changing, and what needs doing. You dispensed with that parliament, and ruled as despot. Many of the common people are starving, others are worked to death, yet you have done nothing to alleviate their suffering. You have failed to curb the greedy nobles and merchants, you have oppressed the poor with unjust taxes, and you have led the land into a civil war. I am sure these puritans could tell you more complaints.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero's finger stabbed into the air. "Now your majesty, please think long and hard about this. Later I will ask you why you should remain king, and how you can repair the damage you have done."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned now to single out the nobles standing near the king. "You nobles, I will accuse you as a group. Can any of you tell me what your sacred trust is?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert ventured "To be loyal to the king, and to ensure that his laws are carried out?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Partly right, Prince Rupert. Any others?" There was a chorus of head shaking. "Very well. Yes, your duty is to your king, and to ensure that his laws are carried out. You must ensure that his laws are applied equitably and equally to all. As a noble, your estates are like a small kingdom. Your sacred trust is to care for your peasants, the people who work your estates. They are your wealth, without them you would have nothing. You must ensure that they receive a fair day's pay for a fair day's work. They must receive enough to have decent food for all their family, they must be able to afford decent clothing, have a roof over their heads. Their daughters must be safe from ravishment. When they are ill, you must provide for them. Yet you force them to slave all day for a jug of milk, you waylay their daughters and ravish them, you forbid them to kill the hare that eats their lettuce or cabbage. You have fenced in the common areas to prevent them from grazing their cattle, as has been ancient priviledge. In all, you treat your peasants worse than you treat your cattle. You call yourselves nobles, do any of you have any concept of what nobility is? You should set examples for your people, not parade around like peacocks in lace and jewellery, idling away your time, or grinding the faces of your peasants into the dirt."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There had been a few sounds of agreement from the puritans during his speach. He rounded on them. "Now then, Lord Protector Cromwell. Can you tell all of us what your sacred trust is?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell said quietly "In faith, I agree with all your criticisms of the king and the nobles. I would say that as Lord Protector, my sacred trust is the same as the king's, except that I would add that my duty is to god and his law, and I must strive to keep the evil one at bay."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And would you say you have kept your sacred trust?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yesterday I would have told you yes without hesitation. Our blessed saviour has visited me in dreams, and has instructed me in what I should to to root out evil in the land. But last night I had a troubling dream, wherein I spoke at length with your two companions. They pointed out that many of the things that have happened in the past five years have not been in accordance with our scriptures. It has caused me much soul searching, but I fear I must agree that many things have not been done in accordance with scripture. It is my considered assessment that we have not been true to our sacred trust."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "At least you are honest. You assumed the king's mantel, you assumed his sacred trust. Yet you have brought the kingdom to civil war, you have instigated the witch inquisition, and caused the death of many innocent people. You have conspired with the nobles to fence in the commons, to force the peasants off the land they have tilled from generation to generation. You have caused untold misery by perverting god's holy word. Danny, to you have anything to add?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I realized prospero was floundering with the intricacies of religious fanaticism. "Yes, I have a few words to add." Nalini and I walked to stand beside him. I was martialing my thoughts.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This applies not only to Cromwell, but to all you puritans here. You claim you are pious men, devoutly following god's holy word. Where in the bible does it say 'thou shalt kill christians because they be catholics or protestants'? Jesus warned us to beware the levin of the pharasees, and looking around you puritans I see pharasees every one. Self righteous hypocrites ever ready to condemn your brothers and sisters for the spec you see in their eyes, while ignoring the log in your own.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ever ready to follow the exact letter of the law, and totally ignore the spirit. Jesus asked us to show compassion, but where is your compassion when the peasants were driven from their lands? Where was your compassion when you started the civil war? Where was your compassion when you condemned thousands to death during the fighting? Soldiers were defeated, and surrendered, but you gave orders to take no prisoners! You foul murderers! You are an abomination before god!}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You whited sepulchers full of dead men's bones, where does it say in scripture 'kill your lawful king'? Jesus preached obedience to lawful authorities, as they have been ordained by god. By trying to kill your lawful king you stand guilty not only of treason, but also of blasphemy. You have set yourselves up as god and jesus christ, re-writing or reinterpreting the scripture to suit yourselves.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Render unto ceasar the things that are ceasar's, render unto god the things that are god's! Are any of you learned enough to recite your commandments?" They began to recite the ten commandments. I interrupted at the appropriate point.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'Thou shalt not kill'! yet you stand guilty of insurrection, treason, would be regicide, and the murder of countless loyal subjects for no other reason than they are loyal to their king! Next comandment." I signalled for them to continue reciting, then interrupted again. They were defiant as they recited.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'Thou shalt not commit adultery'! I give you jesus's words 'Whoever even looks at a women with lust in his heart is guilty of adultery.'. Yet when I was in the kitchen today, the kitchen hands complained loudly about you puritans, how you would put your hands down their bodices, or up their skirts. That is far beyond looking at them! Shall I name names, and describe before everyone what you did? Next commandment." Their defiance was turning to looks of guilt. They weren't as forthright with their recital.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'Thou shalt not steal'! But you fenced in the commons, stole the land and the houses from the common people, kicked them out to starve, stole bread from babies, stole the kingdom from the king, even the manor you occupy near York you have stolen from a royalist! Next commandment!" Not all of them recited this time.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'Thou shalt not bear false witness'! Yet you bribed people to give false evidence in the witch trials, you paid torturers to extract confessions from the accused, and tortured them until they confessed! The cries of the innocent have affronted god! He will judge all of you for that! Next commandment." Cromwell recited alone.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'Thou shalt not covet'! Yet you encouraged people to covet by rewarding them with the property of those they condemned. Not only have you broken all the commandments yourselves, you stand guilty of actively encouring others to break them! Yet you have the hide to condemn witches because they break the first commandment.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now, you have forgotten the greatest commandments of all..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But there are only ten!" came the protests.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell shook his head. "This is like my dream last night. God told me there are no longer ten, because we are not subject to jewish law, but there are two."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I continued "Correct! Jesus said 'I give you two commandments only. The first is love the lord your god with all your heart, all your soul, and all your mind. The second is like the first: love your neighbour as yourself. From these two commandments hang the law and all the prophets!'. You ignore jesus' teachings, basing your hatred and venom on the old testament only. That is the old covenant! If that were the whole truth, there would have been no need for jesus to have come to us, and we would all be jews still, secure in the righteousness of god's law. As christians we are all under the new covenant not the old!}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Jesus was the sacrificial lamb, creating the new covenant, that did away with all the jewish laws from the old testament. Consult st paul if you do not believe me. We not follow jewish law, but the law of christ. I'll let you ponder on what that is while we walk.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But I will give you 2 more things to contemplate: First - jesus taught forgiveness, not condemnation. None of us can be as perfect as jesus, BUT we must not preach, teach or behave counter to his teachings. You puritans go about condemning anyone who does not see the world through your eyes, and you go about murdering those of god's children who are different from you.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Second - love your neighbour, do good to those who hate you, forgive your enemy. Have you forgotten jesus' words? I will leave you with nicodemus' question to ponder 'lord, who is my neighbour?'"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I turned to prospero "Sorry prospero, I think I've alienated almost everyone."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He shrugged, smiled. "I was doing a good job of that by myself. It will give them all something to think about."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The two groups had begun talking amongst themselves. Cromwell turned to me. "Sir, you should consider a career in the cloth. You have god's holy fire within you. What you said echos my dream. I know in my heart that your words are true, no matter how unpalatable they may be. What happens now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I replied "I am a doer, not a preacher. We are acting now, to stop a civil war, and to stop the torture and murder of innocents."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "Now we journey to Aquilonia. Your lives are safe, we do not intend to harm you. You will be my guests for a time, and then we will return you to England. We desire that you two groups talk about your differences, and resolve them peaceably. Now, I require your solemn word as gentlemen that none of you will attempt to harm anyone else, nor will you try to flee. There are dangers, but you are safe with us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was some resentment, but both the king and cromwell gave their words that they would behave themselves, and then ordered their supporters to follow suit.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "Before we set off, does anyone need to relieve themselves, or eat or drink? And I think we should fetch his majesty something more suitable for walking in."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was more general hubub. Most of them wanted to know how far we were walking, why we were walking instead of riding, and generally trying to act self important. None of them seemed exactly happy with the situation, except perhaps the king, who had been facing execution.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Walking is good for you. The good lord gave you legs, so why not use them?" I told them. It would take most of a day to reach aquilonia, but I told them simply that we would reach Aquilonia before nightfall. Let them discover that nightfall would be seven or eight hours away later.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 While preparations for leaving were under way, nalini, prospero and I discussed how the journey should proceed. We did not want to alarm our prisoners too much. Somehow they seemed to have glossed over where they were and how they got there. Nalini theorized they rationalized that somehow they had been knocked unconscious and conveyed here; that was an expansion of her 'people see what they expect to see' idea.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero and I thought we should give an explanation before we set off, nalini feared the puritans would condemn us as witches, and try to kill us. Then she shrugged "I had a bad experience with people like that in another shadow. Maybe telling them is the right thing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I presume that telling them we are sorcerers is not an option?" prospero asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Um... you'd give them an excuse to burn us alive."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh... somehow I thought it was a word we should avoid. Shame, it would make the explanations easier."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I gathered them together. The king and his cavaliers assembled on my right, cromwell and the puritans assembled on my left. The kept a distance between the two groups.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Before we leave, there a few things we should explain to you. You are probably wondering where we are right now, why the sky is a different color, and how it is that you haven't heard of Aquilonia, but we can walk there before night fall.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Let me start by saying that there isn't just one earth, but many side by side like pages of a book."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Rubbish!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's blasphemy!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Matthew isn't it? If you think it's blasphemy, you had better have a long talk with Lord God himself. Would you set limits on our god? Tobias, if it's rubbish, maybe you can explain why the sky is this color?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew countered "Of course it is blasphemy! There is only one earth!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Does the bible say that? If you check Genisis, it says the firmament above, and the firmament below, which has water and dry land. It does not say there is only one earth. Now if you are going to keep interrupting, I'll stop explaining. All I wanted to say was that we are on a different earth from the one you were born on, and that with god's help we can move between them while we walk. Thus you will see the sky change color a number of times on our journey.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is also why you need to stay close to one of us, because we are permitted to travel between the different earths. You are not permitted, but if you travel with us then you are permitted provided you stay close to us. Let's form up so we can start walking."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Two more puritans, Thomas and Henry, added their voices to that of Matthew, screaming blasphemy. I rounded on them "If the Lord God Almighty sees it fit to make the world in such a way, who are you to call that blasphemy? God's will can never be blasphemous. Think, all of you, not so long ago, it was blasphemous to suggest the earth was round. It was blasphemous to suggest that the earth revolves around the sun. But calling this blasphemy didn't change the fact that god had made the world like this, and it was us humans who could not understand. It is not commonsense, anymore than a round earth is commonsense, but commonsense is not God's sense!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They looked angry, but their protests subsided. The king asked "How is it that you can move between these earths?" He had formed his group up behind nalini and prospero. The puritans began to fall in behind his group.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We are not from your earth. We are from another one, where this ability is common to many people. Normally we stay away from your earth, because most of you are too warlike. Now, let us all start walking. From time to time the scenery will change suddenly. Do not be alarmed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero and nalini lead off with nalini and I shifting. Paula and I shooed the stragglers to keep up with everyone; prince rupert and liz walked together in front of the puritan group. They all started out two abreast, with the king and cromwell walking by themselves, but the king swiftly inserted himself between prospero and nalini, and started talking to prospero. Either that, or they fell back to flank him. We seemed to be in a line that was too long, making it difficult to shift everyone, because several times we became separated. I had the rest of them form up three abreast. Cromwell fell back to walk with paula and myself. That seemed to make the line short enough that we could shift at the same time, and keep the entire group together.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We started across the plateau, shifting every couple of minutes. No sense in rushing things, so we might as well enjoy the walk. The first shift was to a larger plateau, with a larger lake in the center. The craer was deeper, the fangs of the rim higher, and snow capped. There were gasps from almost all of our guests/prisoners.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritans started wondering aloud about witchcraft, and several accused us of being witches. Cromwell turned to me "I ask you to explain to us how this is not witchcraft."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I responded "On what evidence do you claim that? English law presumes the accused is innocent until you can prove his guilt. First tell me why you think this is witchcraft."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Because it is not natural to move like this. The very world around us changes as we walk!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Are you arguing that everything you don't understand is witchcraft? A few hundred years ago guns were considered magic, now they are called science. Could any of you set of running in the morning, and run all day? Some people can, would you call them witches? Define witchcraft for me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew turned around. "Witchcraft is the use of spells, it is trafficking with the devil. How else do we travel?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I assure you, we have no truck with the devil. What we do is not spells, or some demon powers. Our powers are granted by god. If you would cry witchcraft, then you must prove beyond reasonable doubt that the demon is doing this."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were several attempts along the -not natural- line, but they could not think of any other arguements.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do you see horns growing from my head?" To my consternation, matthew, thomas and simon all turned to look at me. "Do you see a cloven hoof? Do you see me command the demon? Evidence, not false witness and hearsay! I tell you our powers come from god himself. Tell me, when the angels visited abraham and lot, how did they arrive?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why, they flew down from heaven!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Did they? If you check genesis, you will find they appeared on the ground, and walked toward abraham. He throught they were ordinary travelers, yet two were angels, and the third was the lord god himself! They did not fly, they walked out of the rainbow, just as we do now. And when they were finished with abraham, they walked on to sodom where lot was staying."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They dragged out bibles, they quotes passages at each other, we became separated from nalini. We caught up again, and stopped so that prospero could demonstrate what he looked like shifting in and out. He walked away from us, faded into a rainbow after image. Thirty seconds later he reappeared in a rainbow shimmer. I was at pains to point out that this was how the angels appeared.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They talked amongst themselves for a time. We moved across grassy plains covered with red and yellow striped zebras, and dark horned animals, under pale blue sky. The sky shaded to green, the animals larger and more brightly colored. The sky shaded to lemon yellow, the grass changed to tall ferns and palm trees. In the distant see large animals with long necks like treetrunks grazed in the water. Closer a herd of brilliant red, yellow and green dinosaur like creatures grazed on the lush red ferns. The cavaliers and the puritans gaped open mouthed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I remarked to cromwell "Behold the wonders of god's creation. These creatures died out many years ago in your earth. But sometimes your farmers will discover their bones."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They are dragons then?" simon asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, what you think of as dragons are actually creatures like this. None can breathe fire, many are plant eaters, although some are meat eaters, and they are large enough to gulp downa human in one bite." We passed onto lavender skies, dull yellow grass growing on a hilltop. In the distance we could see green roofs and metal towers of power lines.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With several more shifts the powerlines were close by, and we walked the access track between huge trees with dark blue trunks and yellow and red leaves. They wanted to know what purpose the towers and wires served. I told them they harnessed the lightning, and made it available for lighting and cooking. "It is not magic, it is science." I insisted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell started a discussion about what he remembered from his dream about the new covenant and the old, about how relavent the old testament was under the new covenant. I maintained that the old testament was the old covenant, that they must be careful how they used it, because everything it said pertained to the old covenant. It was quite a lively discussion, and dragged in the cavaliers as well. Bibles were consulted and quoted. I continually hit them with the discrepancies between passages, or at least those I could still remember. They didn't often agree with me, but they stopped calling us witches. We didn't push the issue of scriptural interpretation, I lead them to the passages, then asked them to resolve the issues themselves. Many times they turned their viewpoint around and began to agree with what I said.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Of course, generally it's possible to argue many different interpretations by choosing passages. I was trying to move them away from their legalistic interpretation and toward a more compassionate reading. I won't bore you with the details though.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After almost two hours of shifting, we came to a small town amid cornfields. This was a staging center for travellers, with several large inns. We stopped at one for refreshment. By their dress, the people looked to be from the late seventeen hundreds. They spoke a dialect of german, good enough for prince rupert to make himself understood. Our party attracted attention, but our clothes weren't so odd. There was a reasonable array of european style food, everyone found something they felt like eating. We ordered jugs of water, wine and beer.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The atmosphere was a little strained, but I warned everyone one "Gentlemen, you are our guests. Please conduct yourselves in a civil manner. Discussion on religion and politics is welcome, provided you are polite about it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The king said simply "I am accustomed to giving orders, not taking them. However, I have been trained to be polite."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At one point Henry, one of the puritan nobles, raised his voice about some obscure point of religion. I said to him "Henry, you've lost the argument. Sit down!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He glared at me. "Why?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You raised your voice. That means you cannot think of facts and reasons. You lose the argument."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell supported my stance. "Henry, he's right. You must support your argument with quotes from scripture."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Oh yes, I'd also offended everyone of our guests by putting them on a first name basis. "Here, we are all equals. I insist that everyone of you use the first name of people you address, no titles, no surnames." Of course firstname basis was only for close friends, and that was the attitude I wished to foster. Both the royalists and the puritans were horrified at the prospect, but we persisted, and they grudgingly acquiesced.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our round table discussion on religious points involved the king and his men. It became a little heated, but it was apparent to me that the puritans were making progress with their religious attitudes, and that all of them had progressed to a point where they could sit around the same table and not insult each other.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We finished the meal with coffee. Prospero switched the discussion around to government, and in particular parliamentary democracy and the role of a king. It was evident that he and king charles had been discussing this issue while they walked. He discussed the issues that faced him and king amrik, and drew cromwell and the others into the discussion. It was interesting that when they weren't talking about how England should be governed, they could actually hold a reasonably enlightened discussion on the problems of absolute kings versus parliamentary democracy.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When we finished our coffee, nalini paid the bill, and we set off again. This time I took the lead, while she fell in at the rear with paula. Prospero walked behind me with the king on his right and cromwell on his left. Prince rupert and liz fell in with me, with the three cavaliers behind the king, and the six puritans in two lines behind them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince rupert said to me "If you had told me that I should see the king and cromwell walking and talking together, I would never have believed you. It gives me hope that there may be a peaceful resolution to our civil war."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I sighed. "Rupert, part of the problem is that they are both principled and honorable men. The political process normally involves compromises by both sides. By the same token, politicians who compromise usually will not stand up for anything, they will change like the wind. If we can get these two to agree on something, there is a very good chance they will stand by that agreement."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would almost say you were magicians, I cannot see how you and prospero have managed this."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I chuckled, wondering how to explain. "It comes from a science called psychology, you have yet to invent it. It's about how people behave, and how they react to what other people do and say. Good leaders know most of this instinctively. We are having discussions about relition and politics, but we are avoiding the real situation in England right now. First, we must foster friendship between everyone here. That means we must put everyone on an equal footing, no titles, so friendship has a chance to grow..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So that is why you told us all to use first names!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Partly. The other aspect is that first name basis amongst the English is reserved only for close friends. They all know that. They keep their distance by use of titles, or last names. They may feel uncomfortable using first names, but the feelings that go with that are ones of friendship. They expect that anyone they call by first name is a friend, and they start to feel friendship."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked puzzled, thoughtful. "This is this new science you spoke of?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh huh. I know in German you have sie, irh and du for you. Du is only used to children and close friends. You may feel embarrassed calling your king du, but you will feel a sense of friendship, of closeness, that the term your majesty won't let happen. If he calls you du, then you will feel he really likes you, you would not be embarrassed. It's the same principle. You'll have to think about it a bit. The other part of building friendship is doing things together, sharing the risks of the journey."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's team building, isn't it?" liz exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes. And a whole lot more. Right now the king and cromwell are solving prospero's problems with parliamentary government. The end result will be something they can apply to England, but they developed it in a non threatening situation, for a different country."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They both nodded. Liz asked "You've been heavy into religio for the past few hours. What's the point of that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Part of the problem with the country is the religious fanaticism. Puritans persecute protestants. All the protestants hate the catholics, and let's not mention the jews in all of this. It's all in defence of the idea that their faith alone has a monopoly on religious truth, and if you can't agree on every point, then you are doomed, damned, and we might as well kill you now before you corrupt any one else. These people are the religious and political leaders of the country. If we can tone their fanaticism down, and inject more compassion into their religion, it should have big payoffs for everyone over the next few centuries."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I paused for a moment while we shifted onto an ashphalt road. I moved everyone over to the shoulder, and warned them to be prepared to move off if they heard any noises. We continued for several shifts along the road.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, you and i have had our English civil war, and it was never as nasty as this. We have to try to make a difference, at least."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The road widened into four lanes, with some traffic. Two cars sped past, approaching on the right hand side of the road, and then a truck came up behind us. They seemed to date from the early to mid sixties. We moved off the road and let everyone watch them go past.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Horseless carriages!" someone exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Such speed!" someone else exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert asked "Are they steam powered, like our trains?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He and I got into a discussion about internal combustion engines. He asked enough questions that i felt he would try to build one when this war was over.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A little later we stopped to rest again. The sky was blue/green mother of pearl. We rested on a small bank under the shade of pink trees that looked like corals with small yellow feathery things that waved purposefully, but shrank back when touched. The bank was covered with pale yellow moss, over which crawled green slugs of various sizes. The moss stopped a few meters away, revealing the surface to be reddish gravel, cut through by a small stream with a distinct yellow tinge to it. I wasn't sure that the water was safe to drink. However, everyone had bottles of water we had fetched at the last rest stop.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why are there no horses?" the king asked testily. "I'm tired of walking!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero answered "Firstly, we left our horses back at the manor that Oliver has made his base. Secondly, horses tend to spook with the changes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "We don't want to push anyone too far, but we will have to walk to where we can purchase horses. How do you all feel? Do any of you feel you would prefer not to walk any further?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell commented "I may be going gray, but I can still walk."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert, dressed in jeans and hiking boots, commented "I can walk further. These boots are quite comfortable."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Thomas, a solidly built puritan in middle age, harumphed. "'Tis fine for you young pups! I'm old, my legs are aching, I would as lief not walk much further."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell taunted "You're no older than I! You're just fat."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tobias, James and Robert, the three cavaliers, all complained that their riding boots were chafing. Nalini commented "We should probably have fetched hiking boots for you all, but we gave our last pair to king charles. I have something in my pack that may help." Well, we could have fetched hiking boots even now, but that would entain performing an act that all the puritans would likely call sorcery.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The king announced in a hauty voice "'Tis absurd to walk so far! I for one cannot walk much further. We must have horses! And these boots have no style to them!" He was dressed in his foppish clothes, with silk stockings, but he had swapped his high heeled shoes for hiking boots and thick socks. He looked peeved.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He, cromwell and thomas were all in their mid forties, but cromwell was obviously fitter than the others.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Henry was probably about thirty. "I can walk further, but these shoes are chafing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew, Stephen and Mark, the other puritans, were all in their late thirties. They looked at one another, then Matthew commented "We can walk further. How much further must we travel?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini brought out sticking plaster, and explained that cutting pieces and sticking them on their feet where their boots were chafing would allieviate the problem.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is a couple of hours more." I announced. "The next town we come to we will buy horses." I was thinking that on horseback we would have to take a more circuitous route, and there was a risk of some not being shifted with us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<We'll have to move in smaller shifts, and have paula and prospero act as flankers. This could be tricky I know, but we can't force these unfit old men to walk to far.>> nalini thought to me.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<If anything, this is going to slow us down, but if they can't walk much further, there's no choice, is there?>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<No. Phew, these people need lessons in bathing! Their feet stink!>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<You know the joke. Englishman are very clean, they bathe once a week on saturday, whether they need it or not. Most of them put clean underwear on sunday, and the real cleanliness freaks change their socks as well.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Yeah, they smell like that too!>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  She showed them what to do with the sticking plaster, then sat back and supervised while they applied it. Then she gave them a serve about their cleanliness habits.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Some of them were offended. Cromwell exclaimed "Madam!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If your wives and friends won't tell you, someone has to." she countered. "How often do you people wash yourselves? How often do you change your unnderwear and socks? You may dress like gentlemen, but you certainly don't smell like gentlemen. You smell worse than peasants! A gentleman washes himself everyday, and puts on clean underclothes and socks afterwards! I expect everyone of you to do something about this when we get to our destination. And I expect you to smell clean every day from now on! Cleanliness is next to godliness!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The tone of her voice was that of a school marm telling off naughty children. The guilty hung their heads in shame.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We set off again, following the trail beside the stream. The sky gradually lost its mother of pearl look, and shaded into pale yellow. The sun appeared, and shifted from green through yellow to blood red. The trail became downhill, the vegetation switched to stunted pines, then reddish ferns and bracken.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We came to a small stone bridge that crossed the stream in a single arc, and crossed. The track widened to become well travelled with large three toed prints and ruts of carts and carriages. Another shift and two carriages drove past, pulled by ostrich like creatures. The inhabitants had a middle eastern look to them. Our guests stopped and gaped, then commented loudly for some time.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think we should continue shifting until we find a town with horses. The one we are coming to obviously has those large birds."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We shifted many times along the road to the town. The sky changed to a pale pink, the vegetation became green. We came upon medieval peasants pushing hand carts. We shifted again, and ahead lay a sprawling town. Once it had been a walled city, but now the houses and shops extended beyond the walls. Five mailed knights dressed in red and green rode past us, disappearing into the city.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I asked someone where we could purchase horses. He wanted money, so I offered him a silver piece. His eyes bugged out as if it was more money than he had seen in a while. Suddenly I was "your lordship" He gave directions, offered to lead us. I gave him the silver. We followed him and came to a market area with several horse traders among other livestock sellers.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini had complained about the smell of our party, but the stench of the people we encountered in this town was almost palpable. It was the stench of those who were proud they bathed twice in their lives - when they were born, and again when they died; who proudly wore their clothing until it rotted off them, and simply put more layers over the top. Sewerage was piled in the streets, along with almost any sort of garbage; dogs and rats rooted through the litter with scant regard for humans, and mangey looking cats hunted anything smaller than they. The sickening odour was enough to make our eyes water.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero turned to the rest of us. "I trust most of you gentlemen are good judges of horseflesh. These fellows will undoubtedly try to hoodwink us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 If anything, the stench here was more bearable, there were less humans and more animals, and the animal smells were more bearable.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It took a while to purchase seventeen horses, with riding gear. When they realized how many we wanted, they became very obsequious. That didn't stop them trying to sell us broken down old nags fit only for the knackery on the excuse they were suitable for the ladies to ride.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini drew her sword, brandished it at the traders. "These ladies are warriors! Give us war horses, and make them good ones!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Each horse had to be walked around, assessed, felt, and commented on before we decided whether to buy it. Prospero and the four cavaliers did most of the evaluation, and they all had to agree before a horse would be purchased. Once it became plain that these five knew horses, the traders stopped arguing and brought out only their better horses.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The saddlemakers were a couple of streets away, but one of the horsetraders had a relative who was in the saddlemaking business, and next thing three or four hand carts arrived full of tack. The saddles were higher backed than we were accustomed to, obviously being designed to the knight in armor securely while fighting. We inspected every saddle to make sure it was well constructed, had nothing projecting underneath where it could chafe the horse, and so on. One by one we bridled and saddled our chosen horses, and then rode each one around the sale yards to ensure that it was tractable.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell commented "These would be sturdy mounts for my dragoons."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero responded "They are strong and tireless. They might not be as swift as a lighter race horse, but with a man in armor this is the only sort of horse to ride."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The horses were big boned heavy animals capable of carrying an armored knight into battle, they would not tire with hours of riding. Being war horses, they were less skittish than most horses, otherwise a fallen soldier's helmet glint could be sufficient to cause a horse to rear and lose its rider. There were good reasons for the medieval horsemarket rather than something later.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The whole process took almost two hours. After haggling, the horses cost us a gold piece each, the tack for seventeen horses cost ten gold pieces. Those prices were probably still daylight robbery, but gold pieces are cheap if you are a sorcerer.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We've lost a lot of time here" nalini observed. Our sorcerer's senses informed us that it was already late afternoon in tarantia. "we won't make it by nightfall."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, it feels like another hour till sunset, but we have at least three hours travel, maybe slightly more."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's assuming we can shift easily with all these horses. There probably isn't much hope of shifting faster."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They may slow us down a lot. Can we boost our powers in any way, like we did when we had those gems?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini nodded thoughtfully. "It's worth a try." Then she turned to prospero and called out "Prospero, how long does the twilight last this time of year?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, perhaps three hours. Do you think we can arrive before it ends?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There's a chance. We may have to pick up the pace a bit. But first, we need to eat again. I don't trust the food here, we'd probably all get food poisoning." It probably wasn't such a risk for sorcerers, but for the others it would be.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It was surprising how much happier everyone was on horseback. I think almost all our guests felt beneath their station while they walked. We rode back out of town, and headed back along the road the way we had come. Prospero and paula led, while nalini and i deliberately trailed. During this time, nalini and I linked minds. Some time back, a magical being by the name of fin mak morn had given both of us a magical gift. Nalini had received a ring with a yellow stone, while I had received a dagger with a yellow stone.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were never quite sure why he gave us these gifts, nor what use they were, but we did discover that the gems seemed to be linked to power sources, and coule be used to boost our own powers. However, after the events chronicled in "The Shadow of the Serpent", the gems had become lifeless, and we had put the gifts away in a locked trunk, along with a few other things. The other option was to try to chanel more power through our torcs, but that did not seem to accomplish much these days. There seemed to be some sort of limit beyond which they would not go, and we had reached that limit some months earlier.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The amount of energy we had available determined how many shadows were available at any given moment, because with more energy we could perceive further shadows and open them. Our energy also determined who wide the net was cast around us, anyone inside that net would be dragged along with us. We normally operated within arm's length, which also happened to coincide with the extent of our auras. Anyone inside that range would travel with us when we shifted. Holding someone's hand would also help. We could cast the net wide enough to encompass our group of people, but only when they bunched a bit, and both of us shifted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I pictured the dagger: gold hilt, bronze leaf shaped blade, small quillions pointing forward, and a round pommel set with the gem. The whole thing was almost as long as my arm, and certainly qualified as an illegal knife back home. I felt a sense of questing, a sense that something was shooting out, something capable of extending to infinite length. Then came the sense of contact, just as when we fetch anything. I willed it to me, feeling the sense of it in my hand, and then it was in my right hand.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I strapped it to my belt on the left hand side. Nalini's ring arrived at about the same time as my dagger, as I was attaching it to my belt, nalini told me <<It's alive danny, my ring is alive!>>. She didn't have to tell me, with minds linked I could sense its presence. However, whereas before there had been hundreds of threads or lines running off into shadow, connecting to power sources, now there were only a few. My gem seemed lifeless.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Never mind, one should be enough.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Do you think you could use yours to awaken mine?>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Let's try.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 If we hadn't been riding, we would have had to stop at this point. Instead we let the horses follow those in front, melded our minds, and sank into nalini's gem. It has an odd sort of awareness all of its own. Present it with the first problem, that of waking mine.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Simple. A single thread activates. We follow it to discover it touches my own gem. There is a sense of something remote and slow, an intelligence that spans millions upon millions of years, slowly coming up to speed to communicate with ephemeral humans. A sense of yawning, stretching, then bing, the lights come on. There is something home. Lines of force shoot off into shadow, reconnecting with power sources. Like nalini's gem, there are only a few.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Present both gems with the second problem, that of shifting the entire troop with only one person shifting. A different line activates, one that runs off somewhere. Our torcs grow warm, and suddenly the colors around us are brighter, we are more alert. Our torcs will now channel sufficient power for one of us to shift the entire troop. There is a fleeting sense that somewhere, nalini and I are two parts of a greater whole, that somewhere back there, where the power lies, is the secret to our own powers and answers to questions we barely know to ask. Back there is the reason why we possess these gems. An echo of an echo of an echo of a phrase "I have crossed the fires of hell to find you!" and "no power in the universe can keep us apart!" Then it is gone.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<We really must investigate those power sources one day.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<And find out our secrets. I wonder who we were?>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<We must be soulmates, in the true sense of the word.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<You are my other half, but what have we been in past lives?>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<It's way back in the distant past. "No power can keep us apart" huh? What ever links us must be the source of some very strong power.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<One day, we will follow each line to it's begining.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We leaned over to hug each other, then stretched. I felt good. It's a mysterious world out there, but we were going to explore some of those mysteries. We were going to make a difference.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Could we all ride a bit closer together please? We should start shifting, but if you are too far apart you'll be left behind."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We rode past the puritans to settle in the middle of our troop. With our sorcerous senses activated, we could now sense all the troop, we'd know if any was left behind when we shifted. It was as if instead of spreading our net around and catching all who were nearby, now we could perceive all we wished to travel with us, and take just them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i maintained our mental link, sifting shadows together, and taking it in turns to shift. We had to take an easier route with the horses, seeking a wider trail they would find easy under hoof.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We took a snaking course through shadow, avoiding abrupt changes of scene. That meant more shifts, so we compensated by shifting faster. Alternating the shfiting allowed us to maintain the speed of shifting, one of us recovering from the last shift while the other prepared for the next shift.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The dirt road from the medieval village meandered though many shadows, mostly dirt, but sometimes gravel. The horses were content to plod along at a walking pace.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The king asked "Shouldn't we ride faster? We want to be there before sunset don't we?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell muttered "I would have thought sunset would be about now. My stomach tells me it is time for my supper."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We will stop for a meal soon. Now there are some things you may find hard to accept as fact, but it may be hard to convince you they are. Firstly, our destination is in a different earth" we were being very careful not to use the term -shadow- with its overtones of darkness "so the time to travel there does not depend on how fast we travel in any particular one, but how fast we can shift between one and the next. Secondly, we are wandering about a little in order to find safe footing for the horses. As you know, we had one or two abrupt changes of scenery while we were walking because we were making a straight line. Thirdly, the sun rises and sets at different times in different earths. It is just after sunset back in your home, it is late afternoon at our destination, while in this one it is mid morning."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We got into a bit of a discussion about shifting. I dropped the pages of a book metaphore in favor of the strand of yarn. I asked them to imagine that each earth was a single hair in the strand of yarn. In selecting the next hair to move into, we had more than one choice. The straight route was not always the safe one, but the more we deviated from the straight one, the more shifts we had to make.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It still sounds like magic to me." matthew remarked. "I don't care what you say."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Any science looks like magic to a more primitive people. Just think, your cannons and steam engines would be magic to someone from the middle ages, or arthur's time." I didn't want to start on the differences between magic, witchcraft, sorcery and satanism, I thought I'd lose them early on.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero ventured into the waters "I always thought that magic was things that circus performers did, you know, like making a coin disappear, and then plucking it from someone's ear."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's all witchcraft." matthew remarked dourly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not really, it's just slight of hand. I even know how to do that one, you palm the coin up your sleeve, or on the other side of your fingers, and when you reach for someone's ear you bring it back again. Look, I'll show you all."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We reigned in our horses while prospero demonstrated by making a silver coin vanish, and then plucking it from cromwell's ear. The second time, he showed us how he had pushed it to the other side of his fingers, where it was not visible as he reached out. After that demonstration we set off again.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "Maybe you can enlighten us. The magi who were at the birth of jesus were magicians in the old sense of the word. Were they the same as witches?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritans mistakenly equated witchcraft with satanism, and then lumped anything else in that they could not explain. They were forced to think hard about the magi, and back track a little on their definitions.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini pushed things a little further. "I've heard about some church fathers who conjure up not demons, but angels, and ask those angels to perform acts of kindness like stopping wars and so on. Is that also evil?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Most of the puritans took the opinion that they were in fact summoning demons who disguised themselves as angels. Then the king joined in "But my illustrious ancestor queen elizabeth had a court magician, one dr. John Dee. He conversed with angels, and made quite a study of them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Thomas stated "We outlaw all such, because the demons can desguise themselves as angels of light, as it says in St. Paul's epistle. There is no easy way to know whether what you conjure is demon or angel. It is better to be safe, and have nothing to do with any of that. All we need know is what our blessed saviour taught, to believe in him, and we will be saved."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a chorus of -amen- from the other puritans.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would add the most important point of all, to practice what jesus preached. Faith alone does not make you a good christian, and does not guarantee salvation." I stated.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell observed "We believe that both works and faith are necessary."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula commented "If you people had been better christians, this civil war would not have started."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Christians do not persecute. If you truly practice what jesus taught, then you would turn the other cheek, practice forgiveness, and have compassion on your fellow man and woman. You would not condemn, and you would not persecute. Those are the tools of the devil!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I had the distinct impression that the puritans would have loved to have us tarred and feathered, but they relied on us to get them home, plus we kept saying things that made them think about what they were doing in the name of their religion, and whether that was right.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Simon started "We must be stern with errors, or they will lead the faithful astray. 'If your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out!'"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, all who commit sin must be purged of their sin, lest they corrupt the whole community!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'Let he who is without sin cast the first stone'!" I thundered back. "have any of you considered that when jesus says 'if your eye causes you to sin' he means you and your sin, not someone else's? And when he says 'Let he who is without sin cast the first stone' he means how you react to other people's sins? Be stern with your own sins, but be compassionate with everyone else's, because you are just as miserable a sinner as they are, even if their particular sin is not your own sin."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They hadn't thought of that in quite that way, and that set them off again. I didn't do much more other than act as felicitator, throwing in comments now and again to keep them going, and sometimes steering them back from some byway into which they strayed. The king and his cavaliers all joined in the discussion, which lasted almost all the way to tarantia.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I had other things to worry about, apart from shadowshifting to tarantia. To be able to see the shadows, we have to activate our sorcerous sight. That means we see things other people do not, and that implies that people can develop the impression that you are mad, or on drugs.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were a number of beings that were tagging along. There were five that resembled bright orange cactuses. They kept their distance, but they were following us. They looked like the ones who had been influencing cromwell, and boded trouble for us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Closer was a single black truncated telegraph pole that floated near the head or our troop. It was a guide, observing us for whatever reason.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Two blue and orange puffballs circled us slowly. They were a different type of guide, or perhaps scout is a better term, since they are less helpfull.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Now there were also two other entities that resembled caricatures of the sun, round balls with serated edges and faces in the middle. They wavered in and out of focus as if they were mirages, or projections from somewhere else. In some way they were connected with the activation of our gems.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were other entities that followed us for a time, and then left. Three ghostly humans followed us along a lonely road for several shifts, several times wood nymphs followed us through forests, odd looking creatures that resembled old gnarled trees, nothing like the pretty females of human legend.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We forded a shallow river, and something resembling a small wind vortex rose from the water. Nalini and i assumed it was invisible to the others, because it had that feel to it, when tobias, one of the cavaliers, pointed and exclaimed "What is that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Looks like a willy willy" liz promptly replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell threatened it with his bible, and called on it to depart, but it ignored him, and circled around us, hissing. It was making the horses nervous, nalini switched us back to the shadow we'd just left, leaving it behind. We finished fording the river in this shadow, then shifted again, but to a different shadow.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We played it down, not wanting our puritans to become too excited. Nalini remarked "It's harmless. All it can do is make noises to frighten us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Animals began stalking us. Sometimes they were wolves, sometimes lions or tigers, and as often they were something else entirely. While it does happen that animals will stalk us, usually it is an isolated occurrence. This however was something that was continuing through the shadows into which we shifted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<It's those spikey orange beings.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Are they going through all the shadows we're likely to shift into, and organizing this?>>. I didn't quite believe that.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Danny, it's coordinated. They aren't really a threat yet, we're too many, and the horses are big enough to do some damage, but they're working up to an attack.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Then we should carry the attack to those orange entities.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<We will, but that will take some preparation. Let's look for shadows where they can't marshall anything to stalk us.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We moved to a lonely beach, the sea dead calm, nothing around except low orange sand dunes and dull blue green pigface sprawling across the sand. From here we went to bright orange red sand and a yellow sea, still calm. We cut into one of the odder shadows, our horses hooves ringing loudly on the metalic ground. We appeared to be riding across a roughened copper sheet, blotched here and there with bright blue tarnish. The sky was an inverted silver bowl. Here and there were odd shaped lumps of different metalic colors, such as red or green or blue. Even the air smelled metalic.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our companions admired the scenery, giving us hope we could travel for a time in stranger shadows. We shifted several times, and the metal gave way to a dark glassy substance. With successive shifts it lightened until it was like watery ice, deeply transparent. Faced leered at us from underneath, and voices laughed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our companions were alarmed. I explained "Give them no heed. You have heard of marsh devils, that lead unwary travelers to their doom. These are similar. At worst they might spook the horses."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew announced piously "We have put on the armor of god, we take shelter under his might wings. We have nothing to fear." From there, the puritans broke into a spontaneous rendition of psalm 91.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 From the crystal plane, we shifted briefly to an icy plane high above the world. To our right, tall mountains rose like fangs, spume streaking from their snowy peaks. To our left, the ranges dropped away in rank after seried rank, for as far as we could see. The wind was cold, and a blood red sun smiled from a powder blue sky.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We reigned our horses in to admire the view for a few moments, then moved on to avoid the cold. We arrived at a huge translucent bridge over an abyss so deep it was black at the bottom. There didn't appear to be anything with which to form the abyss, the black shaded through greys to brown, red, and then slowly through many shades into a pale green sky. The air smelled of roses.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 From here we shifted to a golden bridge across a broad river, perhaps a mile or more wide, the bridge seeming to be unsupported except for cables dropping from an arch above us. The cables sang in the breezes like an aeolian harp. There was traffic on the bridge, and motorized boats on the river. We reigned in to admire the view, blocking the footpath on one side.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That proved to be a mistake, because a truck passing by on the far side, laden with steel ingots, suddenly swerved, travelling across the median strip directly towards us. The driver was wild eyed and staring. Nalini and I surprised ourselves, we used our combined wills to swerve the lorry back again, and apply the breaks. That done, we shifted away to a rocky plateau.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What was that about?" several people asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We decided to go as close to the truth as we could. "The devil is trying to stop us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "As we saw, god intervened to stop him!" Matthew announced piously.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Will there be more attempts, do you think?" cromwell asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Undoubtedly. We must be on our guard."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell nodded "Yes, while we trust in god, we should take precautions as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew countered "But the armor of god is a sure thing! We have no need of precautions, we have our god. As you saw, he has saved us already."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Matthew" I interrupted, "there is a story told about a man who was caught in a flood, and was clinging to the roof of his house. A small row boat comes past, and the man in the boat asks him to get in. He refuses, saying "I have faith, God will save me." The row boat continues on. Over the next few hours, three more row boats come past, and each time, he refuses to get in, saying "I have faith, God will save me." Finally he slips off and drowns. He gets to the gates of heaven, and upbrades St Peter, saying "I am a devout christian, why did not god save me?" St Peter looks at him and sadly shakes his head. He replies "My son, we sent four row boats to rescue you. What more did you want?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, I see." matthew replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell commented "I must remember that one." He turned to his fellows. "The Lord God will help us, of that you may be sure, but we must play our part. We cannot expect the Almighty to do all the work!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We continued on, moving from one stoney desert to another. The orange things had vanished. I commented to nalini <<They can't just ambush us, they have to work quickly in what ever shadow we shift into.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<I think you're right, they can't cause an earth quake or an avalanche. But they can cause humans or animals to attack us. If we stay away from modern shadows, and keep mainly to shadows with sparse populations, we sould be safe.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Hmmm If those little buggers come back, I'm going to do something to them.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<If we can get safely to tarantia, we can enlist durathror and imladril to help.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a limit to how far we could continue, and in the end we were forced to switch back toward european country side. We rode across fields, down country lanes with nothing more than some dogs that barked, and a bull that charged. But then we crested a hill to see a party of armed knights riding our way.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We shifted to a shadow without them, but a moment later, they appeared, shifting out of the rainbow. Prospero, riding in front, asked "Did they just shift in?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes. There's trouble brewing. They are armed and dangerous." I didn't add that if they were shadow shifters, then they would have other powers as well. Prospero would know that.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I asked the guide "How are they shifting to follow us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Strange jumbled image <<are arranging that. The humans have no powers of their own.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Right about now I wish I had a hunting rifle. I think I could shoot all of them before they could reach us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell remarked "One rifle? I presume you mean something like a musket? If we all had muskets, we could probably account for them all. How many are there?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Twelve, no fifteen." Prospero drew his gun, cocked it. Paula copied him. Nalini and I urged our mounts forward, drawing our own guns. We shifted us again, and sure enough, the knights arrived a few seconds later.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If they charge, we should shoot only one volley, and then shift. They have to follow, each time they appear we can pick more off. If we get to hand to hand fighting, some of us will die."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula turned to prince rupert, offering him her spare gun. She cocked it, and told him "Two hands, like this. Site along here. Squeeze the trigger. It will fire fifteen times."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He accepted it, nodding. "What is its range?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "With a body shot, it will kill at over two hundred yards." I replied. "It's a flat trajectory, high velocity."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Someone behind me observed "They are wearing armor" Each knight was wearing a white surcoat with a large red cross on it. Underneath that we could see the glint of metal, but whether plate or chain we could not tell at this distance.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero chuckled "These things will knock a hole in any armor I know!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The question was, did we shoot first, or wait until they approached? Shooting first would mean we could kill most of them, but it might still be possible to get out of this without killing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The king, prospero and rupert all thought we shout start shooting the moment they came within effective range, perhaps fifty yards. Cromwell, nalini and I were of the opinion we should try to parly first. As it turned out, the knights decided for us. They were still about seventy or eighty yards off when they couched their lances and charged.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The narrow lane meant that no more than three or four could approach together. Our six horses completely blocked the road. "Okay, nice and steady. Make each shot count." Nalini and i were prepared to shift all of us as soon as the knights came to withing fifteen or twenty meters. That would be cutting it fine.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 My horse twitched with the first shot, but seemed to settle in after that. It was battle trained, if its rider made noises in a battle situation, then it would put up with that. Yet another reason for choosing these animals over highly strung thoroughbreds.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I squeezed off four shots only, each one aimed at a knight's chest. I think all of us took the time to aim, to do otherwise was to waste shots. By the time I'd fired my third shot it was obvious we need not worry about shifting. The riderless horses at the front slowed down as they neared us, impeding the progress of the few remaining knights. Two of the rear most knights swerved their horses, jumping them over the hedgerows and fleeing for their lives.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "My god!" someone exclaimed, possibly the king.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Safeties on" i ordered. Liz showed rupert how to do that. Rupert kept looking from the gun in his hand to the slaughtered knights and back again, as if he could not quite believe that the weapon in his hand could cause so much loss of life. He asked something about what the safety was.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz replied "There's a round in the firing chamber, the firing pin is still ... cocked?... and the safety stops it going off."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "If you drop the gun, or brush the trigger, it can go off. The safety locks the firing pin, but you should not rely on it. Especially if you are releasing the safety, the gun can fire. So never point it at anyone."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I looked at paula and liz, if anyone was going to have a reaction, it would be them.  Paula looked her usual self. Liz was sucking her lower lip and looking grim.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You okay liz?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She nodded. "Yeah, I must be getting used to this. I still wish I didn't have to do this though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So do we all."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini echoed me, added "We tried to avoid them, but they followed. They brought it on themselves." Well, the orange spikey things were to blame, but we couldn't mention that here.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, I know. I got a strong stomach."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince rupert turned and commented "These weapons would cut your ironsides to pieces Lord Cromwell."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell was nodding thoughtfully. "Fifteen shots you say?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i rode forward to inspect the fallen knights. We had to make our way between their horses, some of the knights still had their feet trapped in their stirrups, and were dragging on the ground. There was a lot of blood.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell and the king joined us, followed by rupert, prospero, the cavaliers and the puritans, in that order.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell asked "How is it that they kill an armored man so easily? If we use lead, the armor stops it. If we use iron, it will pierce the armor, but does not normally kill, although it can shatter bones."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero replied "Oliver, when I first saw this, I was astounded too. The more so because we do not have firearms in my country. The bullet is lead, but with a nickel jacket. It is high velocity, at least twice that of your muskets, maybe even three times. The nickel jacket means it will puncture the armor, but doing that fractures the casing. The soft lead inside flattens and tears a hole. The exit wound is the size of an orange or grapefruit. Death is rapid."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The knights themselves wore chain mail, plus iron breasplates and leg guards. Most were dead from shock and bloodloss, but a few were still in the process of dying. There was nothing we could do. Cromwell stopped us, and the puritans said a quick prayer for them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini turned to paula "Paula, could you give your holster to rupert? If he is going to use a gun, he should have the holster for it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We waited while rupert donned the holster and put the gun away. We moved on, shifting away through less inhabited lands. We kept our guns armed, mainly because we feared the next attack would have less warning.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our guests discussed guns for a while, and I could tell that both the king and cromwell were planning on manufacturing modern guns. Cromwell and rupert asked many questions.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How is it that those pistols can be accurate enough to kill over two hundred yards? That is extreme range for a musket."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero explained about rifling, and how spinning the bullet made it more accurate. I was slightly astonished at just how much he did know about guns, but on reflection I realised he was an army general, it was part of being a professional soldier.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How come they're all so interested in guns?" paula asked the world at large.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's a boy thing." liz replied. "They always have to know how to kill things better."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We came to a cliff top above an ocean. The wind was cold, the spray freezing. The horses rode across coarse dark green grasses, here and there scrubby bushes grabbed a roothold. The few trees grew on an angle, testimony to the ceaseless wind. The sky was pale pink, the sun hidden behind clouds. In the distance was a light house. Along the beach were stupendous rocky spikes, once part of the cliff itself, the softer rock had worn away leaving granite dolmens standing like clenched fists. We counted twelve, as well as a large arch. Again we reigned in to admire the view.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The discussion had turned to army tactics, and the use of cavalry. Rupert and prospero supported cromwell in his contention that his ironsides were superior to anything else. I decided to but in.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Charles, Oliver, Prospero, you all stand at a crossroads. A few hundred years ago, those knights we shot were supreme on battlefields. At your current level of technology, the ironsides are supreme. At present, most of a battle is decided by the skill and bravery of your troops. Even with cavaly, much of the fighting is hand to hand. There is a limit to how much killing a man can do armed with a sword.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You have seen what high powered guns can do to men in armor. Those same guns will do the same to the ironsides. These guns are the least of modern weapons. If you go down this route, cavalry is finished. The soldier as the mainstay of the fighting is finished. Guns can be carried by almost anyone, and they can wreak havoc on cities. Where we come from, we have weapons of mass destruction. They don't just kill soldiers on the battlefield, they destroy whole cities, killing everyone.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Our ships carry guns that can fling two tons of high explosive over thirty miles. We have things called rockets that can carry a similar payload twelve thousand miles in a matter of half an hour, and they can hit their target from that distance...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added matter of factly "We also have explosives called nuclear explosives. A single warhead delivered by rocket can destroy everything for a hundred miles, wiping the earth clean in a ball of fire, the way god destroyed soddam and gomorrah. And afterwards the soil and the water and the air are poison for millenia. In some of the earths, ones we avoid, they have destroyed themselves with such weapons.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero's king has rejected the use of guns, and we respect him for that. Guns will eventially arrive, but probably not in his lifetime. It is too late for your people, but if you introduce modern guns, within five years every nation will have them. But remember this, weapons are the tools of satan. They encourage satanic behaviour. And I am angry we had to kill those knights!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was silence for a time while people digested this. Prospero finally broke it with "Nalini, you and danny have often told me that violence is the last resort of the incompetent." I think he was speaking as much for our guests as for us. "If any one else had told me that, I would find it an offensive comment on my status as a military man. But I know that both of you you are superb warriors and military strategists, so coming from you I accept that comment and agree with it. I doubt there was any other way for us to deal with those knights. I am simply thankful that it is they who are dead rather than I." Several of the others were nodding at this, including liz.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned to look directly at the king and cromwell, riding on either side of him. "But I would say that where war is concerned, we are the leaders, we owe it to our peoples to avoid war if it is at all possible. There are almost always diplomatic solutions if the parties are willing. Wars always cause much suffering, and most of them are caused because the protagonists have overweening pride. Civil wars are the worst kind, because they set brother against brother, and father against son."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell muttered "I did not choose war. Blame the king!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The king countered "You committed treason! You sought to depose..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Gentlemen! Please!" prospero raised his voice. "Now is not the time for that. Both of you could have done much more to avoid a civil war. Leave it at that for now. We still have some distance to ride."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stopped for refreshment about half an hour later, in a harbor town. It was a risk, being among people who might be goaded to attack, but nalini and I had made preparations.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The town itself was walled, with armed guards dressed in leather surcoats sewn with bronze disks, and bearing pikes and swords. They let us enter the town without comment. The town itself was mainly low brick buildings, many whitewashed and with red roofs. People were swarthy, most wearing a dress like garment and sandals. There were all shaven headed, both males and females.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We could tell the females easily enough, many of their garments had the front panel partly removed, what remained acted as a support for their breasts without obscuring them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritans were insensed, passing louder and louder comments. Liz remarked to paula "Jeez, you'd think they'd never seen tits before."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Probably haven't. Hey prospero, do you think they have sex with the lights out?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They probably don't have sex, that's why they are becoming so excited." he chuckled.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini was becoming more than irritated. "I'm going to say something danny."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She rounded on the puritans, who were working each other into a lather over the bare breasts. "Listen, all of you! If the sight of bare breasts offends you, then do not look! You so called pious puritans offend me! Most of you are married, yet anyone would think you had never seen a woman before." She borrowed a few thoughts from me. "People are made in god's image, remember? If you find the naked human body offensive, you had better examine your attitude to god, because you are finding god's own image offensive! Everyone of you was born from a woman's body, every one of you suckled at a woman's breasts. If you find that offensive, then all I can say to you is that you find offense in god's handiwork, and you have no place in this world. Go and lock yourselves away in monk's cells, where you won't need to see things that offend you. Now all of you be quiet! If you can't behave like responsible adults, but have to behave like little children, then we will treat you like children. Is that clear?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They weren't convinced, but the tone in her voice told them they had better agree. They looked sheepish, and replied in a chorus "Yes your ladyship."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We rode toward the docks area in silence. Rupert remarked "This town makes me think of descriptions I have read of ancient greece or maybe rome."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, it does have that mediteranean town from the time of christ feel to it, doesn't it?" nalini replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe earier." I added. "I thought bare breasts was minoan or maybe..." I was about to add babylonian, but thought better of it. The puritans would undoubtedly latch onto the imagery of the whore of babylon described in revalations. "..phonecian?" i finished lamely.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do you mean we have gone back in time?" rupert queried.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini shook her head. We both chorused "No." She continued "Different earths are at different stages of development. Many of them are at points similar to our own history, but they are not the same. Even your home earth is at a point several hundreds of years in the past in own history. But this is not your history, any more than your earth is our history."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Seeing the puzzled looks on faces, I added "You are not prince rupert from my earth, because that prince rupert died hundreds of years ago. The same applies to king charles and oliver cromwell. We had our civil war, but it took a different course. You are all different people."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell looked thoughtful, but still a little angry over nalini's rebuke. "Our savior Jesus came to your earth? I do not know which i find less palatable. Were it time travel, there would be only one saviour, but then you people would have god like powers to be able to go back in time and change history, to kill rulers and make things different...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Time travel would lead to situations where you could go back in time and become your own father, or murder your father before he fathers you. It has been a topic much debated, but as far as we know, no one has ever managed to travel backwards in time." I interrupted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell nodded. "Precisely my point. But if there are many earths, then the saviour has visited more than one... can he be in two places at the same time?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He doesn't need to be." nalini observed. "In our world he came almost two thousand years ago. In yours some sixteen hundred and something. Here he may not have even come yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell sighed. "The idea of multiple earths distresses me, but I have seen enough today to prove to me that something like that must exist. Now it makes sense that they would be at different points in our history, for how else could the savior visit each one and save them? That I am different from the Oliver Cromwell of your earth I have no doubt. My soul is my own. God may have made that other cromwell similar to myself, but we are different souls. It is too much for this poor old man. I am tired and hungry. Let us eat, and be on our way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We found a square near the docks with several open air tavernas. We picked the one our intuition (and the guide) suggested was the best. We offered a boy a silver piece to have the horses fed and watered. He looked at it goggle eyed for a moment, then called to some others. together they led the horses around the back. I appointed one of the guides to watch and not let anything happen.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The people spoke a language that reminded me of greek, a flowing polysylabic language, but without our translation spell we would have been lost. Cromwell noticed and asked "They do not speak english, yet when they speak I can understand what they say. How is this?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is part of our power." I replied. "It will only work while you are with us. If you walk out and across the square, it will all be just greek, or whatever."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shook my head. "Why is the sky the color it is? Why do different earths have different colored skies? Why are there different earths? I don't know. Sorry."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There wasn't a great variety of food. Flat breads, some sort of meat roasting over hot coals, oily salads, a few things like falafels and dolmadas.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, kababs!" prospero exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Could be souvlaki if they're greek." paula responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I don't think our english companions were as happy with this food, with its spiced meat, yoghurt and garlic, but they ate anyway. They served us jugs of wine and jugs of water, and I cautioned everyone not to drink the water unless they mixed it at least half and half with wine. The theory of germs not having been invented, we had some explaining to do.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were sitting under awnings, with a view of the harbor, with its galleys with one and two banks of oars, the fat merchant ships with their single sails, brightly colored. Many of the ships had eyes painted on their bows. The breeze was pleasant, the air warm. We even managed to persuade the puritans to discard their coats.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We had almost finished eating when the city guard arrived in force to arrest us. There must have been a hundred soldiers, lead by an officer resplendent in burnished bronze armor and red cloak. He rode a white horse.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I pictured the glyph for the spell we had prepared earlier. <<You've made a mistake. That's not them. Let's go.>> we thought in unison.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 To our relief, the captain of the guard dismounted, peered at us, then said "That's not them. Let's go." He mounted his horse and ordered the troops to move on.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini announced "That was a warning. They will return to kill us. Let's be on our way, and not tempt fate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The bill had been paid as we ordered, so all we had to do was get our horses and go. We rode out through the gates, when there was a trumpet sound behind us. We shifted. The question was whether the orange spikey beings would shift the soldiers after us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i rode on without shifting, presenting the problem to our gems. We did not want to try killing all the soldiers. We needed another way, one that didn't involve bloodshed. The gems suggested a binding spell, and activated a line off into shadow to power it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i extended our senses back into the shadow we had just quit, and sought out the orange spikey beings. They were mustering a cavalry troop along with a century or two of soldiers, presumably in preparation for shifting them after us. The spell touched each one with sticky fingers, binding up their powers. It would hold them for several hours.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Will they follow us?" rupert asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not those soldiers, but the devil will try other things."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I stepped up the pace of our shifting. We can manage shifts perhaps every ten seconds, but firstly we can't keep that pace up for long, and secondly shifting at such speed increases the risk of shifting into danger. It is not possible to inspect target shadows, and sift through them, instead we pick a line, and hope it doesn't kill us!}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As I said, we picked up the pace, shifting alternately. We crossed a desert under a double sun, one red and one blue, we crossed steppes and tundra, we switched into night under five huge moons. Once we rode our horses along the top of a huge concrete dam, the lake stretching out to our right as far as we could see, and on our left a drop of perhaps a kilometer. I think everyone was impressed with the sheer scale of the thing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We rode through a forest of pink trees like coral under the sea, and across black sand on the shores of a lime green sea. We avoided danger by deverting into what had looked like an ordinary shadow, but once there we could see the land around us rising up in a huge bowl shape, with the sky a small opening way above our heads. The bowl shape had vegetation and animals and everything, although how they stayed there beats me. We didn't have time to investigate.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 From there we came to a more normal looking landscape, except that the light was given by flickering fire set on a boat crewed by snakes. I couldn't say how they managed to row the boat, but it seemed to be powered by oars.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We came to a lilipution forest, the trees no taller than our knees. In the distance was a small town, with people milling around. Nearby was a road with horses the size of rats ridden by people perhaps ten centimeters tall. Our arrival was causing panic. We shifted out as quickly as we could.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We rode through pine forests, and came to the bank of a swift flowing river, where the trail ran along the bank. Stinging insects flew out of the trees, but nalini and i wove a shield spell around our party, and they buzzed angrily around the outside.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 On the next shift, three of the orange creatures appeared, and morphed into hideous demons, and flew at us. Someone screamed in terror.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Demons!" Cromwell exclaimed. He fumbled for his bible. The pseudo demons avoided him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and i activated the binding spell, picturing its glyph. I added some words for the benefit of our party. "By the name of the most high god, adonai el hai shadai, and his son Jesus, I banish you. Depart to the nether regions, and never return!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The sticky web of the binding spell enveloped them, they screamed like stuck pigs, and vanished. I wondered what the puritans would have thought if they had appeared as jesus instead.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Were they demons?" matthew asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell nodded "They were demons all right. I must confess I did not believe you when you said demons were trying to prevent us." He turned to me "What was that magic phrase you used to banish them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It was no magic phrase, but the hebrew of the old testament. Adonai means lord, el means god, and hai shadai means almighty living. Your king james bible renders it as almighty living god, and sometimes as lord god almighty."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He pursed his lips, looking grim. "Either you be in league with them, or you have god on your side..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How can you think we are in league with such as they! By bringing you to tarantia we would thwart their plans to ruin England. Of course they wish to stop us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded thoughtfully. "You have said much today for me to think on. I will test it against my bible. How much further do we travel?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Perhaps another half an hour. We might be safe for the rest of the journey."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We continued. The sun was setting, birds setting up the evening chorus as they settled down to roost for the night. Nalini and I were becoming quite tired by now, but we did not want to stop until we reached tarantia. There we could gain help from the viharani - durathror and imladril at least - to deal with these orange beings that were molesting us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Thirty five minutes we road into the castle grounds, arriving not five meters from the main gates. It was late evening, the twilight fading. Cromwell had a sour grin on his face. "The gates are shut. Now let us see if you can gain us admittance." I think he did not believe we were who we claimed to be.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero banged on the gate and called "Ho, wake up in there! This is duke prospero, I wish admittance!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A small door opened, the gate keeper spoke with prospero for a few moments and then the main gate was opened. We rode slowly in, and up the hill toward the palace. It was dark by the time we reached the palace, but a guard of honor turned out to greet us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Grooms took our horses, lackies took our bags, and we walked into the palace. The seneshal himself was there to greet us, a rotund little man in his fifties, dressed richly, and slightly inebriated. He was happy to see those of us he recognized. He turned to prospero "My lord, had you sent word ahead, we could have had rooms ready. As it is, it will be perhaps half an hour."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They must be good rooms, preferably close to my own suites. Danny and nalini will of course stay with me, as will the lady elizabeth. Now, let me perform the introductions. Everyone, this is our seneshal, earl amalrik. Here we have his royal highness king charles of england, this gentleman here is his cousin, prince rupert of the rhine. Here we have earl Tobias, earl James and earl Robert, they are the king's advisors. They should have rooms close to the king. This is the Lord Protector of England, Oliver Cromwell, and these are his advisors earl Matthew, baron Stephen, baron Mark who is also a knight, baron Henry, and squire Thomas and last but not least squire Simon. We have had some trouble along the way, so everyone will need suitable changes of clothing, and servants of course."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The seneshal replied "Rooms are scarce with the wedding, could we put the king and his party in your wing? Now let me think." He counted swiftly. "We are preparing rooms for the delegation from shendistan, but they will not arrive until tomorrow. They are aired, and almost ready for use. They are on the second floor of the autumn wing, the one adjoining yours. Would they be suitable for Lord Cromwell and his party? Otherwise there is nothing except for the third floor in your wing, but they are small, not suitable. The delegation from shendistan will have to take lodgings in the north wing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Some more discussion, and everything was organized. The seneshal continued "The king is at a banquet with many guests, but he did ask that your party join him if they wished. Otherwise, he would speak with you tonight when you are free."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We should attend the banquet. But first we must get out of these travel stained clothes and freshen up. Your highness, would you be presented to our king tonight?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 King charles stifled a yawn. "I would rest soon, it has been a long and eventful day. However, politeness suggests we should meet with your king tonight. And perhaps some food would revitalize me. But first I would appreciate a hot bath and some clean clothes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The seneshal gave orders, and his subordinates ran. "Let me conduct you to your rooms, my lords, your highness."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero said "Tonight I am afraid you will have to borrow clothes from the palace wardrobe, but on the morrow we will arrange tailors to create suitable garb. In fact, " he turned to the seneshal "can we have tailors take the gentlemen's measurements tonight? That way they can start on something fashionable tomorrow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero's suite of apartments occupied the entire second floor of the east wing of the palace. Servant's quarters took up half the floor below. A coridor ran along the northern face of the east wing, and gave access to the autumn wing, where cromwell and his group would be lodged.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As we walked through the corridors, nalini thought to me <<Translation spells. Cromwell and the others will be isolated if we don't set them up now!>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With the aid of energy stolen from the gems we carried, we managed to set up translation spells for each of them. We only managed to complete it by insisting that we would walk with cromwell to see where they would be quartered, and telling prospero he should see to the king and his other guests. They were given two four bedroom apartment complexes that faced each other across the corridor. Servants were already there ensuring that they had hot water for washing, placing baskets of fruit and so on in each room. The rooms were opulant, and would probably offend the puritans, but I was past caring what they thought.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Two valets arrived with hand carts laden with clothing. Cromwell complained about the bright colors, and sent them in search of plain black clothing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I spoke to him. "Well Oliver, here you all are at the palace. I can appreciate that you would prefer to be home, but that will happen in a few days or so. Until then, please make yourself at home, if you need anything, call one of the servants. But please do remind your colleagues that you are currently guests of a foreign king, so please be polite to people. Other than that, the king would probably appreciate if you would appear at the banquet some time this evening."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He sniffed. "You are right, I would prefer to be home. I have no choice but to trust you to bring us home. Hopefully England will not have gone to ruin in our absence. Kings are notoriously fickle, I know how to curb my tongue in their presence." Then he sighed. "You have told me what you hope to achieve by kidnapping us. They are noble aims, I do not condemn you for them. I do however condemn our kidnapping, opulant as these rooms are, they are still a prison because we are not free to go home."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But you are free, Oliver." nalini responded. "It's just that we are here for the king's wedding which takes place in a few days. You have seen how long it takes to travel here, it is not practical for you to leave until after the wedding. But we are hoping that you might learn a better way to govern England, one that involves less bloodshed and suffering. We will see you later."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We returned to prospero's suites. The front part consisted of a large reception area with four guest suites running off it. The fifth door lead through to the family's private rooms. Propero and paula were waiting for us in the reception area, and offered us coffee when we entered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Are they happy?" he asked me.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shrugged. "Cromwell stated he admires your aims, but he condemns your methods. He used the word kidnap. Other than that I think he will negotiate, but if you keep him here too long he will lose patience."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "I'm not sure how he will react when he finds out you are not christians. He might become fanatical."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "I will try my best, that is all I asked. I plan to start talks tomorrow sometime, but I will intersprce them with tours around the capital, there will be at least one formal audience with the king, I will also have some official duties to attend to as well. I fear we will be very busy over the next week."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He did promise to attend the banquet later. When we left he was telling the valets to fetch plain clothing in black. Where is everyone else?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero indicated doors. "King charles is in that suite, being bathed. There is also a valet with a selection of my father's clothes. It turns out that king charles is the same build as duke leto, so I have had the best of his clothes selected for use by the king. Tobias is in that suite there, James in that one, and robert there." He sighed. "As you can see, there are only four guest suites, although the king's has two bedrooms and its own large sitting area. The other three have only one bedroom, and a smaller sitting area. I did not think it appropriate to put prince rupert in the same suite as the king, by rights he should have his own suite. So, I have given him my deceased brother's suite, which is inside my private rooms. Paula and I have my suite. My parents' suite has two bedrooms, so I have assigned you two my father's room, and Liz my mother's. They both have ensuite bathrooms. While there are other bedrooms, they are not ready. I hope you don't mind, you will have as much privacy as back home."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you prospero. Where are your relatives?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, they don't stay at the palace, except in very rare situations, we have a large mansion on the hill, a level below the palace. They always stay there. Since Amrik usually wants to talk with me when I am here, I always stay in these rooms. The guest rooms are always maintained ready for guests so we always have some rooms in the palace ready for immediate occupancy. No one in Aquilonia would complain at lodging with duke prospero at the palace, it is seen as quite a high honor, something king charles has been made aware of. That is why my guest rooms were vacant - they assumed I would be bringing guests of my own to fill them. Since I have been staying with you people, I have had my parent's rooms maintained in readiness as well. You never know when we might just arrive out of shadow, and need somewhere to sleep. I know you do the same with your own house."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Except we don't have the space you have. Why does your parents' suite have two rooms?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I realized the answer as he started explaining. "Because most marriages amongst nobles have traditionally been for dynastic reasons. Husbands and wives always have completely separate bedrooms. My parents had only a sitting room between their bedrooms; it is not unknown for couples to have their bedrooms in separate wings of the house, or even separate houses!}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now, shall we bathe and attend the banquet? Charles and rupert will attend, we will wait for them here." He led us through the door into the family's rooms. "There are clothes for you in your rooms, I took the liverty of having some made in your sizes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That was very thoughtful of you prospero, thank you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Shadow shifting takes a lot out of you, especially in this situation where we had taken energy from the gems in addition to what our torcs channeled. That energy channeling is like using a strong stimulant drug, you have to pay something back afterwards. You can keep that at bay for a time by eating frequently and by drawing more energy, but at some stage you hit the wall, your sorcerous senses shut down completely, and your body collapses. We weren't near that, but we both needed lots of rest. Our preferred plans for the evening were a good meal, a quiet soak in a hot tub, and then sleep, in that order.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We went into the suite of rooms we would be sharing with liz, called out to let her know we were there, and then went on into our bedroom. The suite was huge. There was a large sitting room we shared with liz, a large window at the back, and a door on either side. The left was liz's room, the right was ours. The bedroom inside was considerably larger than most people's living rooms, big enough to hold a party. The bed was hidden away on the far side of the room, near the window. Near us was an opening into the dressing area larger than our bedroom back home. There was a small selection of clothing on shelves and hangers, mine and nalini's, made in the current fashions of Aquilonia. While we rated servants, there were none here because we preferred it that way.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz called out "Are you guys decent?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, come on in." We were down to our underwear, but as far as we were concerned, we were decent.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz walked in, barefoot, but wearing jeans and t-shirt. "Oh, sorry, you should've said."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We're decent, but we haven't bathed yet, so we might smell a bit."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She shrugged. "I haven't either yet, I was lying down." She looked around. "Your rooms are the mirror image of mine. They're huge! The bathroom'll be over there. Hey, you got clothes too! He said he'd had some made in my size. Dunno how he knows my size, but they fit."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He probably asked paula to find out." nalini commented. Liz nodded. We wandered into the bathroom. Pride of place was a large sunken bath, a bit like a spa bath, only deeper. If was two thirds full of hot water. I knelt down, worked the valve that opened the tap, and let more water run in. The castle runs to plumbing and hot water.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We like to soak properly." I commented, watching the water run in and testing the temperature.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Jeez, it's almost big enough to swim in!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We both chuckled. "Prospero's people are like the romans, they like their baths, they're much cleaner than a lot of people I know back home."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "By the way" i added "with these baths, you're supposed to wash yourself first with a bucket" i indicated two wooden buckets in the corner "and you don't get into the water until you're completely clean."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She nodded. "That's japanese style isn't it? I've read about it somewhere. Look, I'm keeping you guys, i'd better go and start my bath. Are you going to the banquet after?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, though we'd prefer to sleep. But we're going to have a long hot soak first." The water running out was cooling, now little more than luke warm, so I shut off the tap. Liz left. Nalini went into the toilet, accessed through a door in the bathroom. I needed to use the toilet too, so I had to wait.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Next moment, the door on the other side of the bathroom opened, and liz walked in wearing nothing but a pair of white panties. "Jeez! Do we have to share the bathroom?" She ducked back.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini came out of the toilet. "Let me deal with this" She washed her hands and put her underwear back on again. I went into the toilet.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I eavesdropped on part of her conversation with liz. <"Communal bathing is all the go here, japanese style. This suite really is for the use of prospero's parents, so it makes sense for there to be a single common bathroom.">... <"No, of course you have to have a proper soak....">...<"Of course we don't mind. It's a question of whether you will be embarrassed.">...<"Well, you have to scrub up in the bathroom, and if you wait for us to finish, the water will be going cold...">.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Next moment nalini reappeared, leading a sheepish liz. "At least we outnumber danny. The first time we came to Tarantia, after rescuing paula and prospero, paula and I had to share a bath with prospero, danny, amrik and all his generals!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Jeez! That'd be a bit hard to take."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Huh! Paula paraded around, she liked the stares she received!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Mixed bathhouses are the norm here." I added. "They have large public bath houses as well. You can give one of those a try if you prefer." I scooped up a bucket of water for her.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, I think I'll leave that for now." She accepted the bucket, then turned her back.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I turned my back and moved away. "Don't worry liz, i won't look until you're in the bath."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It is a lot easier to bathe if there is more than one person, because they can sluice water over you more easily than you can yourself. Liz got over her embarrassment rapidly enough, and joined in the sluicing. "You realize they have servants here to do this for you?" nalini asked liz.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Jeez, dunno if I'd like having  strangers do this." She was squatting washing her hair while I poured water over her head.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Different cultures. We've noticed we've changed a bit ourselves."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We settled into the tub for a soak. "That wasn't so bad, was it?" i asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, it's more the thought of squatting there washing my bits with people watching."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We both chuckled. "But we're squatting there washing our own bits!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, you'll be happy to know I didn't feel like you were perving on me..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, he has me for that!" nalini interrupted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I chuckled "That's why married men are so popular with single women. They can treat a girl like a person and not just a sex object."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Could be. Do you know, I haven't shared a bath since I was a little kid."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's more fun when you do." nalini commented. "But it's too hot to get up to anything anyway."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I wonder what our puritan friends would make of this?" i asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Jeez, probably have a heart attack!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, liz, do you think prince rupert likes you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Dunno, he probably just finds me exotic, he hasn't seen any black chicks before."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do you like him?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ahh... he's okay. I wouldn't want to get serious with him though. I don't like his shadow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We soaked for a while, talking idly, then got out and threw buckets of cold water over each other. Liz squealed with the shock, and I wondered if the others could hear us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Later as we were dressing, nalini commented "Liz likes you, but there is nothing sexual there, unlike paula."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I've noticed, it's a relief."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It was nalini's turn to chuckle. "Poor danny! Two girls isn't really your dream, is it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, sweatheart, you're everything I want."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I know lover, you're everything I want. I'm just glad liz doesn't see herself as competition, the way paula always did."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She still does, but in a different way these days."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini snorted "Yeah, now she's pregnant, she gets that smug look sometimes when there's just the three of us. It's as if she's saying 'look, danny's given me something he hasn't given you.'" She sighed. "Well, what's done is done, and can't be undone. I'm just glad liz can be friends with both of us without any sexual undertones."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think she needs people around. I've a feeling she'll be in here soon."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini looked thoughtful for a moment, then nodded. "Hmmm, you're right, she does like having people around. I guess she's used to having a house full of relatives."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Sure enough, a few minutes later, liz called out "Hey, can you give me a hand with this dress nalini? I can't get it done up."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's why we're supposed to have servants." nalini called back. "Bring your clothes in here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz padded in barefoot, holding her dress against her breasts. "It's got hooks and eyes all down the back."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Danny's good at them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I'd just finished doing up the hooks and eyes on nalini's dress. "Okay, turn around liz. You realize you'll need someone to help you undress as well?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, I'll leave when you guys do."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A little later, the three of us joined prospero, paula and rupert in the sitting area, where they were drinking coffee. Prospero quipped "Ah, a thorn between two roses. Both of you look beautiful!" He actually managed to sound like he believed it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was wearing his house colors, bright red trousers with gold stripe, yellow shirt with black cummerbund, and a jacket that combined all three colors, along with much gold braid. My own outfit was dark blue trousers with a gold stripe down the leg, pale blue shirt and sky blue jacket, with gold braid. Rupert wore dark blue trousers like mine, but with a maroon jacket. Nalini wore a long dress with puff sleeves, colored mainly black and emerald green, but with the colors entwined by some trick of the weaving. She also wore an emarald green bolero jacket with gold braid. Liz was dressed similarly, but hers was red and yellow. Paula wore a variation on liz's dress, but hers was red, yellow and black, prospero's house colors. All three girls wore earings, paula had replaced her nose stud, I wore my diamond stud. Prospero, rupert and I wore swords.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz took one look at prospero and liz, and commented "Hey, you're both wearing aboriginal colors! I should have the same."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero explained "They are my house colors, I'm afraid you cannot wear them here unless you are a relative, or betrothed. I hope you don't mind."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula smiled archly and asked "Enjoy your bath did you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, it was an enjoyable experience for all of us. Prospero, you should have warned us there was only one bathroom in the suite." I was smiling.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz giggled.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "You heard us did you? Maybe you should have joined us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero pretented to miss the point, and replied "There probably isn't room for five. Some how I feel that our english companions do not go in for bathing much."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They certainly don't go in for communal baths, let alone bathing in mixed company. That doesn't mean you couldn't persuade your guests to participate. The puritans would be a different matter though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert was lookind decidedly non-plussed. Prospero explained, adding "We presumed that you might be embarrassed, so we spared you that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince rupert nodded. "I thank you for that. I have never bathed with a lady before."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded in return. "Different cultures. That is where the puritans err, they assume that their culture is the only one."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Mayhap that is why their philosophy is not so popular on the continent. We have at least seven different cultures and languages. In fact, I have heard that further north, in Sweden or maybe Norway, they build separate bath houses, where they use hot stones to create steam. The whole village will sit in there naked, and then when they become too hot, they run outside and roll naked in the snow!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I have heard that too. Certainly where danny and nalini come from, there are countries with similar practices."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Whereas it surprises me to see that you have a separate room for bathing, and not only that, but that you have many of them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Our own mansion has only a couple of private bathrooms, and a large communal one. However, when the castle was remodelled, this was supposed to be a number of separate suites for visiting dignitaries. My father was given several of the suites for his use, and then after the civil war, I appropriated the entire wing. King amrik stayed here until we had demolished the old king's chambers and built him his own chambers. Now I keep all these apartments, and it allows us to honor a visiting dignitary by accommodating him not just at the palace, but with duke prospero's private apartments."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I caught some of your explanation to the king. You are in fact next in line to the throne?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes. There are five of us who can trace our lineage to the old king's grandfather, my father was a grandson of that king. Old king sorono killed anyone who was closer, including all his own children, and those of his brothers and sisters. After the civil war deposed him, we faced more civil war while the claimants settled who should be king. As you can imagine, almost every noble has some claim, and many were pushing their own claim, no matter how tenuous. I settled it by putting general amrik on the throne. The whole tale is a long one, I will tell you some other time, but amrik had the support of most of the army, plus my support, and many of the nobles supported me. The other nobles agreedto support him rather than have some rival on the throne. He has proved to be the best king we have ever had. I am the official heir, since the king has no issue. He marries this week..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At this point, a servant entered and coughed discreetly. When prospero looked up, he announced "Sir, your guests are assembling in the reception area. Shall I send someone to enquire after the other party?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "Yes, do that. Have you served refreshments?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course sir. Will you be joining them now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled quickly. "I have to play host. Shall we go?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert offered his arm to liz. She accepted, and accompanied him. The servant placed our coffees onto a tray, and followed us into prospero's reception area. All four of the king's party were there, some drinking coffee, some wine.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The cavaliers were all dressed the same in light red trousers and long black jackets decorated with much gold braid. The king wore darker red trousers, a white shirt, and a dark blue jacket with red and gold piping. His hair looked freshly permed, and his curls were tied with clean ribbons. All four wore swords.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero greeted them with a courier's grace, drew them all into a polite conversation. I gathered that king charles had made a fuss about the color of the clothing being offered him, and the servants had had to chase around the palace looking to borrow clothing of different color. The blue jacket was one of mine, as it turned out, with a quick tailoring job done to make it fit better.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After about ten minutes, the servant reappeared to inform prospero that the puritans were on their way. Prospero looked appologetically at the king "I hope you don't mind, but protocol demands that we all enter together. Once the introductions have been made, you need not sit with them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The king smiled sourly. "This afternoon, they sat as my prosecutor, judge, and jury, determined to behead me for treason and witchcraft. I have been unable to defeat them in war, but if a few hours of politeness will help me regain my kingdom, then I will endure it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritans were all there, and all of them dressed in plain black trousers, white shirts, and dark gray jackets. None of them wore swords. They appeared to be in a reasonable mood.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero greeted them, then asked "I trust your rooms are comfortable, the clothes to your liking? Did the servants not provide you with swords?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell replied for all of them. "The rooms are far more opulant than we need or want. But let that be. The clothes are plain, as befits a puritan. We wear no swords, we are men of god, his word is our armor, our bible is our sword."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero lead the way back to the palace banquet hall, walking beside the king. Rupert fell in beside liz, offering her his arm. Paula walked beside me, remarking "I hope one of those puritans doesn't offer me his arm."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You should take prospero's arm." I replied. I offered her my other arm.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  The banquet hall was huge. It was lit by a number of chandeliers, which threw a soft light over the proceedings. The walls were decorated in red and blue drapes with little gold motifs. There were a number of tables arranged around the room, with the center clear for dancing. It wasn't crowded, and could easily have accomodated twice the number of people. Access to the kitchens was from one wall. The main table was set by itself, a second table near by was empty. We were being led to this table.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik and enyil were seated side by side at the main table, the king wearing a simple military dress uniform consisting of dark red trousers and blue jacket with little braid. Enyil wore a dress similar in style to that worn by nalini, except that hers was a tartan pattern that included black, green and yellow. Amrik stood, and wrapped prospero in a bear hug, before moving on to paula, nalini and myself. Enyil followed him, hugged each of us as well. Paula introduced liz, who also received a hug, before the king had a chance to speak with prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "These others are your guests then?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes sire, we walked into a civil war, which we are now trying to stop. I must speak with you afterwards."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik shook his head and grinned "We have trouble enough here prospero! We will talk as soon as we can leave this. Now, introduce us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik took king charles' hands to greet him, then prince rupert's. The others were treated to a nod of acknowledgement.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 While he spoke with the group, enyil turned to nalini and i. "You two look as if you have been shifting hard for too long."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We nodded. "We'll have to tell you the details later, but we ran into problems with some entities." We described them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She looked concerned. "This is serious. Durathror and ra'anor are here, I will ask them to meet with us afterwards."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Also, the guys in black are religious nuts who comdemn all sorcery as demon worship."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So prospero's messanger told us. We have been briefed, but only sketchy details." She sucked her lower lip thoughtfully. "I cannot ask you to sit with us yet. We will talk after."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We went to the large table set somewhere near the king's. King charles and his men sat at the end closest to the king, the puritans were given the other end, we sat in the middle. Nalini and I were closest to the puritans, but we avoided talking much by eating heaps.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell was interested in how the government worked here, so we wound up giving a short talk on parliamentary government. Prospero helped out with details.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Eventually Amrik commenced the dancing, partnering enyil around the floor. Prospero and paula got up, followed by Nalini and i, then rupert and liz. We danced one dance, then amrik collected us with his eye, and we left to follow him. Liz and rupert followed us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik led the way to his chambers, where servants set out coffee, liqueurs, wine and nibbles including nuts, fruits and chocolates. There were a number of comfortable chairs, small tables and the like, indicating he often entertained guests here. The walls were decorated with hanging tapestries, one a hunting scene, one a pastoral scene. Pride of place was given to a set of framed photographs, the main one being earthrise over the lunar landscape. Smaller ones included the martian deserts, and Saturn, Jupiter and Uranus seen from their largest moons.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked around, then asked "Should I be here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik sat himself in a comfortable chair, unfastened his shirt, and offered one foot for a servant to remove his boots. "Aye lad, we want to hear your story without showing favoritism to either the king or his adversary. Make yourselves comfortable, I appologize for the lateness of the hour, but I always seem to be busy these days. You have not seen those pictures before?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince rupert was looking at the photographs. "What are they? They remind me somewhat of moonrise, but never have I seen such fanciful images."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik explained what they were of, and that nalini and I had given them to him. Rupert was at first incredulous, but then he looked thoughtful. "We know the earth is a ball, and copernicus and galileo have said it revolves around the sun, as do the other planets. It therefor follows that the moon and other planets are also balls. But the size of them! They must be as large as our earth. And that means they must be much further away than any of us imagined."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik responded "You had best ask danny, nalini, paula or even prospero, since he visits their world. They can explain things better than I. But they remind me that no matter how big we think this earth is, it is but a small fragile ball when viewed from the moon. I had never thought about it before I saw that picture, although our scientists agree with yours. But do you know what is the most sobering thought for me? That each star we see in the night sky is another sun, with its own planets, like our sun. There must be thousands of them!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert shook his head in wonder. "This is too novel a thought for me to comprehend properly. We always thought they were holes in the firmament, through which god's glory shone. Though I have wondered about them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I have too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A servant admitted ra'anor and durathror. Introductions were performed, coffee and liqueurs poured. The king returned to the business at hand.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Tomorrow I will meet separately with your king, and .. what's his name?" he looked to prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Cromwell my lord king."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, tomorrow I will make time to meet separately with both the king and with cromwell. After that, we can provide facilities and accomodation, they will be invited to join in any entertainments we are putting on, but that is about as far as I intend to become involved. They are welcome to stay as long as they like, within reason of course. Now, if you would be so kind as to tell us yor story?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert started "I do not know all the details, especially those that happened more than a few years ago. I have only lived in england for three and a half years. I will try to be truthful. We have a king, and a parliament. The king cannot pass laws without the approval of parliament. It must have been sixteen years ago that king charles dismissed parliament, and ruled for eleven years without it. He made new laws, raised taxes and so on. Cromwell was just a member of parliament, but he was an organizer of resistance to the king's despotic rule. The judges supported him because whenever there was a court case concerning any of the king's new laws, they would throw out the case declaring the king's law invalid.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then about six years ago the king ran out of money, and recalled parliament. When parliament refused to grant him money, and pass his laws, he sent his troops to arrest them. Cromwell and two others had arranged their own army to defend parliament, and so the civil war started. The king's army was defeated, and he was rapidly pushed north, where there are more royalists. The south was for parliament, the north for the king.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "By this time Cromwell was leader of the puritan faction in parliament, and managed to have himself elected parliamentary leader. I think many of the nobles thought that what they were doing was very close to treason, and they were happy for cromwell to take any blame. Parliament then passed a law declaring the king deposed, and an outlaw with a price on his head. An outlaw may be killed on sight, and any who help him may also be declared outlaw. Parliament then passed a law declaring the throne forfeit, and all the royal properties were confiscated. They created the post of Lord Protector, and chose Cromwell to fill it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "At some stage, the puritans fell out with many of the other parliamentarians, and dismissed most of parliament. The remainder are called the rump parliament, all loyal to cromwell. The leaders including cromwell are called the gang of seven. About four years ago they started the witch inquisition, where the property of any condemned witch was awarded to his or her accusers...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That would bring accusers out of the walls!" amrik replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It did, there were a rash of accusations, and the inquisition interrogates accused witches until they confess. Once they confess they are hanged. That has turned into the Terror, where anyone who does not support cromwell is condemned as a witch...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There's many a ruler who has done that. His popularity must be falling."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is. The civil war continued, with the king's forced defeated at every turn. I sailed over from germany, I have the honor of being the only commander to have beaten cromwell's troops. Unfortunately we only won a few battles, and then cromwell's superior numbers told...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And his battle tactics." prospero interrupted. "They have a method for firing volleys we could use with crosbows. They form into three ranks, the first rank fires, then retires to reload. The second advances and fires on command, then retires to reload. The third rank advances and does the same. By the time they retire, the first rank is ready to advance and fire again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik nodded thoughtfully. "It needs discipline, but it is so simple. It's odd that no one has thought of it before."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is also quite devestating" prospero continued. "Each volley is as effective as the first, and the bowmen can advance slowly across the field, clearing all before them. Couple that with a line or two of pikemen and you have an almost unbeatable force, without using any cavalry."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert continued "Sadly it is true. Their volleys tear apart any cavalry charge. The only attack that seems to work is to flank them and charge from the side, where they cannot bring all their men to bear. It is not often you get that chance though. And even then, cromwell's armored cavalry, his ironsides as we call them, have armor that is bullet proof at the front, so a charge by his cavalry cannot be rupulsed. We have been pushed further and further north, till ... was it yesterday or the day before? we fought at marston moor and were defeated. Cromwell ordered our defeated troops slaughtered as outlaws. If it had not been for prospero and the others, I would be dead. They rescued me, and killed eighteen of cromwell's ironsides in the process.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The king was in the city of York only a few miles away, it fell the same night, and the king was captured. There was really no where else to which he could flee, the scots further north were marching south in support of cromwell, we were trapped between them. That was yesterday. Today, we six came to where they were trying the king for treason, rescued him, his three advisors, and took the gang of seven prisoner. Prospero then brought all of us here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now, why is the king so unpopular?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I do not know for sure, but I think part of it was raising taxes, the nobles fenced the common areas where the villagers used to graze their cattle, it was illegal to kill any game, including the hares that would eat their vegetables, the tennant farmers were thrown off their land...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "In otherwords the king and his nobles behaved like kings and nobles always have, screwing everyone else into the muck. Cromwell couldn't have deposed the king and raised an army to fight him without popular support. So cromwell was seen as the defender of the ordinaly people, and could have organized a much better government, only he threw it away. Can you tell us why?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He's a religious nut!" paula put in.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert nodded, "That's a fair assessment. He is very pious. There are historical reasons behind the enmity between protestants and catholics..." we digressed into an explanation of the various brands of christianity.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz added an explanation about king henry the eighth, his daughters queen mary being catholic, her husband king philip of spain, and elizabeth being protestant and the political reasons why england became protestant.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert added "The king is protestant, but he does not condemn catholics, under his rule they were free to worship. The puritans see catholics as pawns of the devil, and claim their pope is a demon. Cromwell started by forbidding any catholics into his army, but once he was lord protector, he forbade catholic worship, and closed down all their churches. To be catholic was to be seen as subversive, and it wasn't long before the initial witch inquisition targeted witches, irish, jews and catholics. If their pope is a devil, then it is but a short step to regard all catholics as demon worshippers, and so condemn them with witches."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So, with political reasons for distrusting catholics, it was expedient to make them enemies of society. Then you put society on a war footing against these enemies, and you control them. Didn't someone called hitler do that in your home?" Amrik looked at me.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, he had the jews declared as the reasons for all the ills in german society, mobilized the germans on a war footing, and millions of people died. I'd venture that most of the so called good protestants and puritans feel safe from the witch inquisition, and think that only catholics are witches. The terror is there, but it doesn't touch them, and they still support cromwell." I replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We got into a discussion about the mechanics of the politics of hate, and how populations could be controlled. Most of it was new ideas to prince rupert.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert added more details about the puritans. "They have outlawed dancing, drinking, gambling. No one may do any work on sunday because that is the holy day, reserved for religious practice. If you are a traveller, you go hungry on sunday because no one is allowed to cook food and sell it to you. To wear colored clothing or long hair is to proclaim yourself a royalist and an enemy of cromwell."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We talked about this, then enyil reminded us "Danny, didn't you say that you encountered some entities influencing cromwell?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We explained about the dream experience, watching rupert grow goggle eyed. Then we continued with the details of what we had encountered on the journey to tarantia.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror commented "It wouldn't be the first time they've done that. Quite possible many of the most evil leaders in human history have been under the influence of those beings."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What are they?" rupert asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They aren't a demon in your christian sense of the word, they are more like a pack of wolves, or sharks. That is their nature, they dislike humans, they often act as spoilers. In their own realms they can drain and kill other entities, but in human realms, they are not that dangerous, they must work mainly through human minds. I am perturbed to know they could shift those knights after you. I suspect that now they are gathering strength for another assault. We must deal with them tonight, and deal them such a blow that they do not return. I need to think on this for a bit, but tonight we will collect the two of you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Would it be possible for me to come along?" rupert asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh ho! Would you learn to be a sorcerer, prince rupert?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That wasn't what I had in mind, I merely wished to see how you deal with them and cromwell. I would like to experience a dream wherein I am aware I am dreaming."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Just so, but your cromwell would condemn you as a witch and sorcerer. Well, you may come."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik commented "So these demons impersonate cromwell's gods, and he worships them and does what they tell him? Then we must show him that his gods are false."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Precisely, your majesty. The question is how do we do that. Danny and nalini have already started that process, they have sown the seeds of doubt. Now we must nurture those seeds until they grow and bear fruit."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik asked a question of all of us. "What are we to do with these puritans? They claim that anyone who does not follow their own religion is a demon worshipper, but so what? Other fanatics are the same. Huh! As far as I am concerned, being a priest or magician is just an excuse for not doing an honest day's work! Most self respecting demons would not waste the time of day on most of the magicians I have met. I doubt that most gods would wast the time of day on most of their priests either.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We refer to your shadow walking abilities as sorcery, we refer to your powers as sorcery, but neither have anything to do with demons. Are we to hide these from Cromwell because he does not understand, and disapproves?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "We had to refrain from using terms like that until we brought them here. If they thought they were travelling with sorcerers they would flee for their lives. Now at least they trust us a bit. If prospero wants them to negotiate, he needs to retain their trust. I think we should be careful what we tell him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror commented "I would have said rub their noses in it, but if you must retain their trust, then it must be done slowly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "They will condemn all of you as pagans when they find out you are not christians, unless we can somehow convince them that you are...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "I have been thinking on that. Our god mithras is represented by the sun, but he is the son of the all seeing father who has no form. He also died and was reborn after a battle with the evil one... Now tell me, why would jesus use the same name and the same words as he used with your people? Could not our mithras and your jesus be one and the same person? Cromwell has already encountered the idea of many earths, and the idea that his god has visited a number of them. I would certainly argue that point with them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert responded "They might not accept it, feeling that jesus came to them, and that their mission is to bring jesus to you. I can understand that way of thinking. But as you say, why can't Jesus visit other earths, using different names? If the culture is different, then he needs to teach using different words. You have logic behind you, but it is too new, it is hard for me to accept. It will be much harder for them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik decided. "Then we will not pretend to be other than what we are, but we will use prospero's argument that our god and their god are one and the same. If they make too much of a nuisance, I can always have them arrested."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But we need cromwell to return to england and dismantle the terror he has set up." prospero countered. "If we remove him from the scene, then his supporters will continue to support his ideas, just as we still have a resistance movement that supports the old king. We need him to work with the king to set up a parliamentary system that works, so that the king will not be a despot; probably something along the lines we are creating here. We should treat all of them as equals, as part of a delegation from a country who have messed up their government, and are looking for a working alternative to try."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But how do we make them think like that?" paula asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a germ of an idea in my mind. Nalini picked it up and said "Team building!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At their looks she added "You put them in situations where they cannot do something by themselves, but must rely on each other. There should probably be a religious framework, with organized activities where they have to learn to work with each other."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "You can't remake their personalities, but the idea is to get them past hating each other, at least to a point where they are willing to work together. You can't start feeding them ideas for a new parliamentary framework until then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We kicked the idea around for a while, then ajourned to bed. Amrik would leave the organizing to the rest of us, but would help out if we needed him to.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ###}}