{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Cambria-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi284\ri-597\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32\b1\i0 Chapter}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  5}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There's a t-shirt I've seen, that reads on the front "Too wired to sleep" and on the back "Too ripped to fuck" That sort of described nalini and i when we finally got to bed. We were hyped with coffee, wired with the energy we'd channeled during the day, and wiped out from the exertion of shifting. Since we were too wired to sleep, we decided to borrow more energy from the gems, and get into some serious energy sharing and balancing. We'd discovered some time back that balancing our energies after a day spent shifting usually required three climaxes. That third orgasm is the best, and after that we can drift off to sleep.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We are telepathic, so when we make love we can feel what the other is feeling, it makes everything that much more intense. Of course, being telepathic does require a special relationship, one where you can share your innermost thoughts with the other person. Nalini is the only person I trust enough, or love enough, to be able to do that with. With borrowed energy we made love three times without stopping, the energy rush building up until the third orgasm. We let that third rush carry us off into the world of dreaming.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We drifted for a short while in colored fogs, content merely to be with one another. After a time we became more awake, and decided we should be somewhere. The fogs dissipated, revealing a tropical island scene with a white sandy beach, a bay with calm seas, sunshine, palm trees, lush green vegetation everywhere. The sky was also shades of green, which made it difficult to determine where the sea ended and the sky began. There were people on the beach and under the shade of the palm trees, mostly islander types in brightly colored shorts or minishirts or swimming costumes. The women were mostly bare breasted. Most of them were not dreamers, nor were they constructs, for they had auras. Many people were dancing to music, but there was different types of music being played on different parts of the beach. Near us a band was playing hawaian style music. Further along the beach another band with steel drums was playing jamaican style music, while in the opposite direction a third band was playing latin american music.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We floated down to join in the party. We were in no hurry, we knew that durathror would round up who he required in his own good time, and he would have no trouble finding us. We swam in the water, we danced to the various bands, along with many other people. Then we noticed the people around us were changing, their vibrations were no longer pleasant, I felt as if sharks were circling, even though they were mostly couples dancing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Their auras don't feel right, do they?>> nalini confirmed my suspicions. We stopped dancing, actually looked around. Almost immediately the scene lost its soft lambent glow, the slightly vaseline lens look, and became hard edged, the colors bright and harsh. The people around us were unchanged, but those more distant lost their auras, indicating they were now constructs.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Someone had sprung a trap on us, hopefully prematurely. <<Let's get out of here!>>. We moved with the thought, but they were ready for us. The circling people all turned to cling to us, eyes and fangs and sharp claws, suddenly become vampires draining our energies. Instinctively we clung to one another, opened up the channels from our torcs, but still we were being drained swiftly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<We have to get away!>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<The gems!>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were fading, but the gems were linked with us, and suddenly they opened, channeling huge amounts of energy. The constructs all burned away, evaporating like ice in a blast furnace. The vampires clinging to us became those spikey orange things, but still they clung, and still they drained. We were unable to move, unable to will ourselves elsewhere.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Linked, we were being stripped layer by layer back to some core. With that came a certainty that this had happened before. If we had survived that time, we could survive now, couldn't we? But how? We did not know.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Strangely, neither of us were afraid, it was more a feeling of anger, coupled with the thought "what a stupid way to go" The final death?}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I are linked, but now the draining had reached a point where they were trying to tear us apart, to tear her from my mind, to break whatever link bound us. We no longer were aware of being separate, we were two halves of some greater whole. Somehow, I/we realized that the attacking entities were astonished that we still existed and resisted, that they thought they had to separate us before they could overpower us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That tearing at our ties triggered something. Deep within some core, a thought floated out: "We are one! No power may separate us!" A door opened, something ancient and vast looked out. For a moment I/we knew who we were. Once before, something far more powerful, one of the old gods, had tried this, had almost succeeded, but even it had lacked the power to uncreate us. Never again! The fury surfaced, cold as ice, as unstoppable as an earthquake. The orange spikey things were fleeing, but were caught in a net, unable to escape. The fury reached out, and they were not.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Then the door closed, the fury shut down, the memory leached away. We were nothing but awareness in a void.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We are aware therefor we exist. That which exists can be named, and we are named soaring eagle and stalking jaguar. That which is named is called into existance. We reassembled ourselves out of the void. "We create ourselves anew!" Interesting that this is part of the linking process that opens the energy channels in the first place, and tunes our torcs to ourselves.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 For a moment we were different, ancient beings with a much colder outlook. Then personalities reassembled, and we were danny and nalini, floating in blackness. "Let there be light." and there was light. The blackness gave war to swirls of colored fogs. For long moments we clung to one another, digesting the import of what had happened, grateful to be alive. "Let's go find durathror." Two minds, a single thought.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini was in the form of a dark woman with a jaguar's head, while i was a golden skinned man with an eagle's head. "Who are we?" "What was that?" "I knew who I was, but now I've forgotten." "There is something very powerful behind whatever links us. Our bond is our true strength." Who thought which? I do not know.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Instead, we adjourned to the street of cafes beside the university gardens, and waited. The whole incident was hazy, hard to remember, but we discussed what we could remember over coffee until durathror and ra'anor arrived with liz and rupert, plus two guides.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We greeted one another with hugs. Even rupert, who was looking around with interest. Durathror explained "We had to give rupert a jolt to wake him up, he may need more. Are you ready?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We think there is something you should know first." We told them what had happened. They sat there and listened without comment.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror sat forward, his fingeres steepled. "The fact that they attacked might have been expected. You have foiled some plan of theirs by kidnapping cromwell and his cronies, they seek to stop you. It disturbs me that they attacked in such force, and that you were unable to escape the trap. They are strong in their own realm, that is where they took you. We must be carefull in our dealings with them, and not let them convey us elsewhere. The two guides have agreed to go with us, they should notice a trap before we do. Now, do you feel up to accompanying us? Stand up while ra'anor and I will look you over."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert's face said he wasn't sure he'd made the right choice by asking to come with us, that he'd realized he was out of his depth. He sat there looking worried, toying with his coffee.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz asked "So how did they escape? What happened to those orange things?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror replied "We may never be sure, because these two are hazy about it...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One of the guides interrupted "We may be able to see things that you others cannot. May we?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror nodded. "You seem all right to me. No lasting damage, except for a bit of shock perhaps. Go ahead."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One guide moved to me, the other to nalini. "Please place your hands on me, and think over what you remember."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I did as instructed, but things did not become any clearer. The guides then conferred in silence for a few moments before one replied. "Their best recollection is that the entities were unmade by what ever power they touched." Durathror raised his eyebrows and whistled. "As they recollect it, the power came from within them, though this is unlikely. They do have a strong bond, there is some power there, but to command power to unmake they would have to be from the archetype or the primary shadow. The gems they possess are magical items, they must link to such a power."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked almost as puzzled as rupert. "Could someone put that in english please?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The guide started in its pedantic manner, but durathror interrupted "Let me explain, you can add details. To unmake is to uncreate, to make it such that something never existed. I will let you mull over the implications of that, but let me explain it this way. God dreams the archetypes, they in turn dream of the prime shadows. Beings from the prime shadow have the power to make and unmake shadows, but only with immense effort and preparation, not like this. Korum, whom some of you know, is such a being. He could not have done what you did earlier without careful preparation..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But we remembered!" both of us said. "When that door opened, we remembered that we have this power. We knew who we are..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror chuckled and shook his head. "Was it you? Look within, you will see the face of god looking back. Maybe it was that, maybe somehow you do have the power, but nothing else you do indicates anything of the sort. Maybe somehow you are old gods, mascerading as humans, but if it is a mascerade you both play it so well you have forgotten everything. Even your auras are human, surely they would give you away...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One of the guides interrupted. It was impossible to tell which one was speaking. "The old gods are barred from the shadows. There are circumstances that let them manifest a projection, but to manifest as a human, they would need to disguise themselves so thoroughly that they would lose their godhood and become humans. There have been unconfirmed rumors of this from time to time, but these two are not old gods. We also know that over the eons, a number of beings from the primary shadow have died the final death."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What is the final death?" Liz asked it, but we were wondering also.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The guide replied "When every layer that defines you is stripped away, your physical body dies, your dreaming body dies, your spiritual body dies, the four other bodies for which you have no names also die..." It named the other layers, but the names were meaningless jumbles with no sound. "There are those who claim that some devine spark survives to continue, but you would cease to exist. Had this happened to you, you could not remember, for that which remembers would no longer exist."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror nodded. "Thank you. Now little sister, little brother, do not forget that I was with you the day you used those gems to banish the Stealer of Souls. That power was not yours, nor did it come from the gems." He turned to rupert. "You represent good by jesus and the archangels, and evil by satan and the devils. However, you will find a much older image, where good is the eagle that soars before the sun, and evil is represented as the serpent that crawls in the dust."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert nodded "The serpent we use ourselves to represent the devil, but the eagle I do not know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror nodded "So things are partly familiar to you. The stealer of souls is one of the old gods, capricious, evil by our standards, one of the serpent's brood. A sorcerer found a way to give him access to the worlds of life. We three fought that sorcerer, but as we were destroying him, he summoned the stealer of souls, who came to lay waste and to devour souls. Those gems are connected with the eagle, he manifested through you two to destroy the serpent's heart, and so banish him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is my opinion that a bond has formed between you and the eagle, that somehow you two have become his proteges. Earlier tonight, those creatures sought to destroy you, to drain you and devour your souls. What ever you did, you opened a door to allow the eagle to act. It may be that if you are ever in such a situation again, he will act again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned back to rupert again "The eagle is called the lord of light, while the serpent is known as the lord of the abyss. The eagle is represented as a man with golden skin and the head of an eagle, his consort is a dusky skinned woman with the hear of a jaguar or leopard. That is why you two took on those forms, just as you did against the stealer of souls."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert was shaking his head, looking worried.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then why did we remember that this had happened before? Why did we think we remembered who we are?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror shrugged. "Who knows what the eagle has done? You were in contact with him, it is possible you shared some of his memories. Possibly you thought as you were dying that you were him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Sounds plausible.>> I thought.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<But we know what we felt. Danny, we are some kind of fallen being, or something. We must have done something bad, and been banished. That's what I feel anyway.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<I know what you mean. One day we have to follow this up. I've got no idea where to start though. Soaring Eagle and Stalking Jaguar hey? One day we'll return to our original home though. One day we'll remember everything.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<One day sweetie pie. We have a bond that can't be broken. I've always felt that, now we've confirmed that.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<I promised I would come for you, and there's something about crossing the fires of hell to do so. I wonder what we are, or were?>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were looking at each other wordlessly. Durathror was still talking. "I do not know what the ramifications are of what you did tonight. Shall we look for cromwell?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay. What about prospero and paula?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I was just telling you! Are you two with us, or are you off somewhere else?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sorry durathror," we both responded, "we were talking about something."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He made a rueful smile. "Well, if you two can stop admiring each other for a little while, I will tell you again. Prospero said he does not want to jeopardise his position as a negotiator. He and paula have other plans. Enyil will be waiting for us in cromwell's bedroom. Shall we go?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In cromwell's bedroom, many of the opulant hangings had been removed, and were piled up in the corner. Beside them were most of the ornaments, the paintings, just about every bit of decoration in fact, along with cushions.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Enyil was waiting for us, with amrik. Enyil appeared much as she does in waking, with a tartan skirt, white lace up bodice. Amrik looked a little younger, his dark hair longer and caught back in a headband, wearing the boots and leather kilt that reminded me of what roman soldiers would wear. He had a red cloak, and a huge broadsword with a black blade.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We made a remark about the hangings, amrik replied "It was a waste giving them these rooms. I think the servant's quarters on level one would have been more appropriate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror made us tell enyil about what had happened to us. Amrik swore "By mithras! They sound like demons."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "I think we should all change our forms before we follow cromwell. We don't want to tip our hands immediately we arrive." She switched into something more angelic looking. We followed suit, except for amrik and rupert, who had to be coached. After a few attempts they both managed to look angelic. Amrik was reluctant to leave his sword, but was finally persuaded to.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Enyil had all of us touch her, then she cupped the chord that extended from cromwell's sleeping body. There was a blur of movement, and we were off.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Fluffy white clouds, mother of pearl behind them, and stained glass windows floating around. Choirs of angels sang sweetly, while others played music on gold harps and lyres. Everything was white and gold. The seven puritans were dirty splashes, each one kneeling in prayer. On a throne of gold sat a jesus like figure, dazzling white robes, white face, brown hair and beard, piercingly blue eyes. He was almost pretty.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We floated around making admiring noises and moving closer to the puritans, who seemed oblivious to everything.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Then the jesus figure noticed us. "Greetings my children. You may approach." Cromwell and matthew both looked around at this.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Greetings, oh lamb of god." durathror responded. "You are he, aren't you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am he who takes away the sin of the world."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The rest of us stopped beside the puritans, while durathror continued forward. We tapped the puritans to attract their attentions. Enyil used her telepathy to inform all of them to be quiet and to pay close attention. Durathror stated "Blessed be, oh lamb of god, lucifer, bearer of the light."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were gasps from matthew and one other, but enyil shooshed them. The jesus figure smiled beatifically, and inclined its head. "What do you want?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror had done some bible study at some time in the past. All the titles he proceeded to bestow upon the jesus figure were used somewhere in the old testament to refer to Satan, the adversary of god.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh great prince, who has set his throne above the stars, bearer of the light, lord of the holy city of babylon, we unworthy creatures crave your blessing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now how did you gain admittance here? My blessing is only for those who are worthy of it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'Seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened to ye.'. We sought oh mighty lord of the air, we knocked oh lucifer the light bearer, and the door was opened to us. And so like dives and lazarus, we have entered through the eye of the needle. You are he who walked in the garden of eden, whose trappings are gems and gold, you offered our forfather adam the fruit of the tree of knowledge, and the fruit of the tree of life. For this we are eternally greatful. You are the spiritual father of cain, and of esau, and all their descendents. We are your chosen people, you are the wellspring from which we flow. We most humbly beseech you oh lord of the earth that you might dip your little finger into the waters of life that flow from the holy city of babylon, and place the merest drop upon our tongues, that we might be blessed for all eternity, that we might enter through the ishtar gate into the holy city, and dwell there with the blessed." He bowed low.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The jesus figure looked puzzled, as if it had realized that something was not quite right, but it could not put its finger on it. "You must earn my blessing. Are you prepared to carry out my wishes, and proclaim me supreme lord throughout the universe?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course, most holy and puissant prince of the powers of the air. Your merest whim is our command."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The jesus figure looked about, looked at us assembled by the puritans, then looked back at durathror. "Would you root out all evil and devil worship? Would you purge your land of all who do not worship me?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror responded "We will scourge them with whips and with chains, we will burn them with fire, until they are no more! We will flay them alive in our zeal to persecute those who will not acknowledge you as lord!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<He's overdoing it.>> i thought.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Maybe he wants to push this to a resolution?>> nalini throught.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The jesus figure stretched its arms into the air and waved them. "Peter! John! James! Come hither! Your lord has need of you!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell rose to his feet. He seemed to be trembling, but his voice was firm, even mild. "Most blessed savior! You have many names. Will you take us to dwell with you in the holy city of babylon, oh lucifer the light bearer? Will you also bestow your blessing upon us, most powerful prince of the air?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The jesus figure bestowed a beatific smile upon cromwell. "Of course, my beloved servant. You have earned my blessing, these others must still earn it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The other three arrived beside the jesus figure. Cromwell continued his questions "Then you are also the king of the holy city of babylon as isiah says, and the king of the holy city of tyre as ezekial says?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The jesus figure turned to his three helpers. "Investigate these newcomers, determine if their zeal be real." He turned back to cromwell. "I am he of whom the prophets speak."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell drew himself up. "Then I know you for what you are. For isiah says in chapter fourteen 'Take up this taunt for the king of babylon: the Lord has broken your staff... you have been cast from the heavens, oh morningstar... you said in your heart 'I will ascend to heaven, I will set my throne above the stars.''" There was shock on the face of the jesus figure. The other three reached durathror, but he sprang back to stand beside cromwell.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell glared at him, and continued his speach, his voice firming. "Ezekial says in chapter twenty eight 'Take up a lament for the king of tyre: you were in the garden of eden with the Lord your god, your trappings were every precious stone and gold,... you were the annointed cherub, you were perfect, I placed you there on the holy mountain... but you filled your heart with unrighteousness, in your pride you fought with your Lord,... therefore I cast you down into the abyss!'" He was stabbing his finger into the air in his fury. "I name you satan, adversary of the Lord God!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror spread his hands, and fire flowed from his fingertips, spreading out to form a ring around us, barring passage to the jesus figure or the others. He called out in a loud voice "In the name of God Most High, I command you to reveal your true natures!" He clapped his hands with a sound like thunder.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The choirs of angels vanished, to be replaced by the screams of the damned. The jesus figure and the other three became hideous demons, with horns, maggots crawling over their rotting bodies, and surrounded by a sickening stench. They screamed curses. The jesus figure screamed "I know you, I will follow you all the days of your life, I will make you long for death..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I returned to the forms we'd had earlier the evening, the jaguar headed woman and the eagle headed man. Something prompted us to speak, words that had hidden in the recesses of our minds for this moment. "And we know you. This is your only warning. Harm the least of these, and we will come for you, and deal with you as we dealt with your companions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The demon figure had to look up at us now, we were head and shoulders taller. Fury and fear chased across its face. "You!" it shrieked. "You are the ones! You... unmade... them!" its voice fell to a sob. It backed away hurriedly, almost falling over itself. The other three fled with it, followed by five more that had been skulking behind us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell looked like he couldn't decide wether to explode with apoplexy, or collapse into tears. The other puritans were standing dumfounded, mouths open. Come to think of it, so was rupert.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror turned to the rest of us. "Let's demolish this, and go." He spread his hands out like a priest bestowing a benediction on the masses. "In the name of the most high god, I command you to dissolve and be gone!" There was a flash of lightning and a peal of thunder. As arial says in shakespeare's play The Tempest, the cloud capped towers and palaces all dissolved, leaving nothing behind. We are such stuff as dreams are made of... and we were surrounded by colored swirls of fog.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror instructed us to grab a puritan each, and ensure that all of us held either him or enyil. Then there was a sense of movement, and we were back in the street with the outdoor cafes. He grabbed a table and pulled it like modelling clay, increasing its size until it was large enough for all of us to sit around. Waiters brought chairs, coffees and a selection of delicious looking cakes. It wasn't until I sat down that I realized we had all reverted to our normal appearances.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritans had begun talking amongst themselves, but cromwell shushed them. He looked at us and remarked "I know who you are. But what are you? Are you also demons, come to dupe me?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror replied "No Lord Cromwell, we are godly people sent to rescue you from the clutches of the evil one. I am glad you asked him, you saved me the trouble of forcing him to admit his identity."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell nodded. "At first, I could not believe my ears when you called him lucifer. But he did not deny it, or even remark upon it. Then I realised that your words were a trick to alert me without alerting him. I realized that he had duped me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew exclaimed "Lucifer Morningstar! How could we have been taken in?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell's anger was fading, now he looked old and sad. "Because we failed our test of faith. We did not follow our scriptures, and test everything that appeared, and every word they said, against our scriptures." He indicated nalini, liz and me. "These three came to me last night, and warned me to test everything I had been told against my bible. I began reading my bible when I woke this morning."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We must do something about it!" Matthew shouted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell rubbed his forhead and temples with his hands. "We must undo what we have done. But..." he turned to face me "I'll not let that despot sit there prating about the devine right of kings. He brought the country to ruin."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik spoke. "And what he did not ruin, you and your cronies did! You are no better than he is, neither of you are fit to rule."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell looked hard at amrik for several moments, as if he did not recognize him. Finally he spoke "Your majesty! You are right, we have done a very poor job. Very well, we shall undo what we have done, but what do we do about the king and the parliament?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik banged his hand on the table. "You do what we are doing. No one should have the supreme powers that kings have, we are not gods with the wisdom to wield such power. The king and the parliament must work together to govern..." He launched into an explanation of how he was restructuring the government of aquilonia. Enyil joined in, along with several of the puritans.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror turned to nalini and me. "You two have surprised me today. I was debating the best way to prevent them from attempting to carry out their curse. Ra'anor, enyil and I are safe from them, you two have proved that you are safe, but the others would not be safe."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor added "It was a risky course you took though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror shook his head "Not really. We could protect them all where they were, the worst that could happen would be for those creatures to laugh, and then later to come back to carry out their curse, to lie in wait for each one when we enter dreaming. That was their threat, it is within their power to carry it out. Now that they know that danny and nalini were responsible for unmaking the others, then danny's threat is real for them." He turned toward us again. "I have to hand it to you two, you have a knack of making enemies of the old gods, and the small gods..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is that what you call those creatures?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Collectively. There are many different types of entities that do not possess physical bodies. Those orange creatures, the blue puffball ones, and the tree trunk ones are but three; all are reasonably powerfull in their own realms, and can interact with humans. We refer to all of them as small gods. Do not confuse them with elementals, who are more like mischevious monkeys. They may claim power, but they have none. Small gods have power, and we call them small gods because they often pose as gods to living creatures. Gods are more powerful, and include beings like korum, and some that do not posess living bodies. Many of the gods you would probably call demons, for they are evil, while these small gods are not."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would say that what we saw today was evil behaviour. If that isn't evil, what is?" I was a little puzzled.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror sighed. "All part of your ongoing education. Humans can exhibit evil traits, but for the most part you would not call them demons. Just so with these orange small gods. They can be evil, certainly they do not like humans, but they are not demons. I made them appear like christian devil for cromwell's benefit. By the way, did you know that devil is derived from the words for small god?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We learn something every day." nalini responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert suddenly sat forward and spoke. "It sounds reasonable. The dev part would derive from the latin deus for god, the romans wrote V for U, but I'm not sure about the il part. Maybe it's from the greek?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror turned to face him, and twirled his moustache before answering. "I was not aware you were listening in. But yes, devil is small god, while demon is something quite different. Demons are actively hostile to all life, demons are active in trying to persuade every living creature to cause pain and suffering in others. They are fairly single minded about it, so they tend to be rather unimaginative. That is just as well for us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Devils on the other hand tend to be more human like, and show inventiveness and imagination in their schemes. So although they have less power than demons, they tend to cause more problems. I hope we have now finished this little scheme of theirs, in which case cromwell and the king can be more co-operative toward one another."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We discussed things for a time. Rupert rapidly lost interest in the proceedings, and became fascinated with the play of light on the surface of his cup of coffee. Not long after he faded out. Several of the puritans did likewise, but cromwell and matthew had staying power, and continued discussing the finer points of government with Amrik and Enyil. Liz moved from her position beside rupert's empty seat to sit beside me. I sat beside nalini, who sat beside durathror, who sat next to ra'anor. She was sitting next to rupert's empty seat. Durathror smiled, closed his eyes for a moment, and suddenly the long table split in two, we were sitting around one, amrik, enyil, cromwell and matthew sitting around the other.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How do you do that?" nalini asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, we've tried, but with no success."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He tapped the side of his nose knowingly, and winked. "Ah, it is almost as hard as changing the world of waking. The personal power of all the inhabitants is hooked into the making of this realm. But you already know the principles involved, this is shape shifting, just as you shifted your shapes earlier. It is simply a matter of whether your personal power can override that of the inhabitants. Mine can. This was not just idle fiddling, the first time was both test and demonstration, this second time was a demonstration for your benefit."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And that comes with time and practice. I suppose we could be more focussed in our practice."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is all a matter of what you want. You both apply yourselves to your martial arts practice. If you spent as much time in waking practicing sorcery you would be better sorcerers. Perhaps those small gods would not have lead you to their realm."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz remarked "So practicing in dreaming isn't enough?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror shook his head. "No, dreaming practice is but the first step. Here you learn the doing of something, the principles involved. Not this realm, but other ones, where there is just your personal power. Then you progress to other dreaming realms where the doing becomes harder, until you reach a point where your power is sufficient for you to begin practicing in waking. To try practicing in waking before you reach that point would set your endeavours back."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But don't I need a torc first?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, this is a common misconception amongst novices. The torc is but an amplifier, you must put something in to get something back. What is more, it is not linear, but something like logarythmic..." Seeing the look on her face, he stopped and explained. "When the input level is low, there is no amplification, but as the input level increases, so the amplification factor increases. Until you reach a threshhold level of personal power, a torc will do nothing for you.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "None of us actually need a torc to shift, the torc allows us to shift further, and for longer by supplementing our own powers. You will be close to that level before you are given a torc. For a start, you must be able to control the power, otherwise all manner of strange things could occur."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What sort of strange things?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You have heard of poltegeists?" Liz nodded. "They are almost entirely the result of uncontrolled energies of pubescent children. There are other entities involved in some of the more bizare phenomena. Your energies will be much more than that, if you cannot control them, it could be very traumatic for you and those around you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So are there any other exercises that I should be doing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror smiled, twirled his moustache again. "There are many exercises you could be doing, but if you are doing all the ones we taught nalini, then that is more than enough. You do not want to over train, that tires you and drains you. If an exercise is not working, then it should be changed. You appear to be progressing satisfactorily though. But if you like, one evening I will run you through some tests."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, I'd like you to do that, I think."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned to look at us. "Nalini, danny, you have no objections?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, we'd appreciate it. We're not sure either of us is advanced enough to teach others."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We'd appreciate the feedback. After all, we're not training paula and prospero."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, paula and prospero need more experienced teachers. But liz is still working up to wearing a torc, you are experienced enough to teach her."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor suddenly asked "Liz, do you have a boyfriend?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh.. no, I guess I just haven't found the right person yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor nodded "That's good really. Now that you are developing as a sorcerer, you will find you have less and less in common with people who are not sorcerers. You should have a boyfriend who is also a sorcerer, and that will help your development."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You mean like paula found prospero?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not quite, although they train together and they share energies. If you can find someone like prospero, then that would be good. But I meant someone like danny, or when nalini started she had korum for a boyfriend. Someone more advanced than you are, who can stimulate you to grow." Ra'anor explained.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Can't you guys do that? Why do I need to find myself a boyfriend?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor laughed softly. "Nalini and I cannot, even if we wanted to, and you wanted us to. Men and women have different energies, you must balance your female energies with those of a male. If your sexual preference is for women, then I am afraid you have a problem...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz went "Ulp! No, I'm not lesbian."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor continued "Danny or durathror could, but I'm sure you will understand that they will not. Energy balancing would involve them having sex with you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh... I just rememebred that nalini did mention something about that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini responded "We haven't taught you much about energy balancing through sex simply because it isn't easy to explain without actually doing it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh... I see. Er... how did paula and prospero learn then?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor looked directly at me. I looked at nalini. She looked an me, smiled, then made a resigned grimace. <<I guess we tell the truth.>>. Aloud she replied "Danny taught her. I asked him to..." Liz's mouth dropped open, her eyes widened. "..and I was linked to both of them while it happened. I shared the entire experience."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And prospero doesn't know this." I added. "But don't worry liz. You're safe."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm relieved. But should I be offended? Nalini can I ask why you asked danny to? I mean..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, to be honest, I'm not sure exactly what either of us was thinking at the time. We'd just been through a very dangerous episode, with the promise of more to follow. That sort of thing affects your judgement a bit. The little minx was practically throwing herself at danny. It just sort of happened. Somehow I had the idea that she could practice energy balancing with danny without getting involved in sex. I even told them I'd make sure it didn't go any further. Then I linked with danny, we linked minds with paula, started the exercises, and next thing we were having sex. But at least paula learned the basics, which she and prospero practice. So don't be offended. But if you ever start throwing yourself at danny, we'll consider it!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz smiled. "I'm not offended. But I won't be throwing myself at danny either."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor interupted "Liz, we don't want to put pressure on you, but when you reach the stage of shadow shifting, it would help if you did have a partner for energy balancing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, I'd like to have a boyfriend too, but so far no one has shown up who's suitable." She looked down at the table. "Besides, I'm still a virgin."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I suspected she meant she hadn't had sex since she was raped. Nalini and I went along with her little deception. "Hey, that's easily fixed!" I quipped. "But seriously liz, don't do anything you're not comfortable with."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor asked "What about that nice young prince who's been escorting you around?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz made a face. "He's okay, but... I think he's just fascinated because I'm the first black chick he's seen."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Black!?" durathror exclaimed. "Brown surely! You're no darker than I am."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor urged "Why not try him out? What's the big deal about being a virgin anyway? In my culture, the shaman deflowered every girl immedately after her first blood."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Erk! Sounds a bit primitive to me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "Liz, if you weren't a virgin, I'd say go ahead and sleep with him, but only if you want to. I guess it's a harder decision being a virgin." She smirked suddenly. "I think I've forgotten what it was like, it was so long ago. I agree with ra'anor, what's the big deal? Seriously though, it's best to have a good lover, especially if you're inexperienced. But you'll have to lose it sometime. If i were in your shoes, I'd give him a try."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shrugged, with the look of someone who was considering this advice. I asked "You got any contraception?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She shook her head. "I did try the pill, but it bloats me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Condoms are safer anyway. We'll fetch some for you tomorrow. Then it's your business."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor remarked "Liz, at the risk of shocking you again, in my culture, a girl couldn't get married unless she had a child to prove she was fertile. Marriage was to do with providing for children. Once a girl was deflowered, she could bestow her favors where she wished."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It doesn't shock me" liz replied. "It's just that I was brought up to be a virgin when I married...." suddenly she looked sad. "At least the nuns did. My parents said it didn't really matter, us black fellas don't see it as important as the white fellas do..." She was reverting to dialect again, indicating she was nervous. She put her right hand to her mouth, began chewing the knuckle.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I put my hand on top of her left hand, patted it. "Liz, don't fret. We've all had bad things happen in the past. Any man who is worthy of you will accept you as you are. You're a wonderful person, don't forget that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini leaned forward, placed her hand on top of mine. "Liz, don't let us pressure you. Do what you are comfortable with. Be true to yourself, we'll always support you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror and ra'anor exchanged a significant glance. Durathror said quietly "Liz, the nuns value virginity only because they take an oath of virginity. The whole thing is completely misguided. Sex is a source of power, a source of enjoyment. Nuns and monks with their denial of the body come from the same tradition as these puritans. They are all anti pleasure, because they regard any pleasure as demonic."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor leaned forward, studied liz intently. "Liz, we viharani regard sex as a gift, we bestow our favors on whom we will, but if the intended partner has a partner of his own, then his partner must know and freely agree. So when danny taught paula, he didn't go behind nalini's back, she asked him to teach paula, and was with him while he did. Your past may have made you who you are today, but you past is dead and gone, and no longer important. You are born anew each day. But you must let your past go, just as nalini has let hers go. Only then can you get on with your life and enjoy sex as it was meant to be enjoyed. Danny completed nalini's healing, your healing won't be complete until you find yourself a good man."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked at ra'anor, and said slowly "You know, don't you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We worked some of it out, and some of it we read in your aura. What was important at the time was that what happened was against your will, but it is no more important than if you fell and broke your arm."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror chuckled "Liz, if it has been more than a year, you are re-virginated. No man will ever be able to tell the difference."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Gee thanks. That's so reassuring."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, a real man wants his partner to have skills, he doesn't want a virgin. There is no power in virgnity, that's a lie spread by priests to control people. In making people take vows of virginity, the church repressed any chance of people discovering their power. Look at nalini's ancestral culture instead."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini nodded. "We'll take you through india some time liz. But the old temples are full of carvings of gods and godesses having sex, in many different poses. You've heard of the karma sutra? That's indian. And indians invented tantric yoga, which is the yoga of sexual techniques to develop power. Of course, they got off the track, what danny and I do when we make love isn't tantric yoga, but something more powerful."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz suddenly snorted with laughter, and covered her mouth. "Yeah, I heard you two tonight."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And you'll learn that too liz..." "..and one day you and your partner will be able to..." "..make noises like that!" nalini finished laughing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz smiled, a happy sincere smile. "It's okay, I'm over my past. Occasionally it upsets me when I think about it. These days I don't have sex because I don't have a boyfriend, and I don't have a boyfriend because I haven't found one I like enough."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, you're hanging around with the wrong guys, or not hanging around in the right places."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked at me for a moment, then smiled. "I know you didn't mean that the way it sounds. Aboriginal guys accept me as I am, white guys don't. To most of them I'm just some dirty abbo slut."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, you know I didn't meant it that way. You've been hanging around with the wrong types of guys, regardless of their ethnic background. You need to set your sights higher. So hey, what's so bad about a german prince? But now you're learning to be a sorcerer, it will be harder for you to find a partner, because you will want someone who is a sorcerer. The ones from our culture are in short supply. Even nalini is from a different shadow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz smiled sardonically. "Lotsa people would argue we're not from the same culture either."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah? Liz, don't get pedantic. We both grew up in Australia, but neither of us are wasps. Our ethnic backgrounds are different, but culturally we're both Australian."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I always thought you were pure white."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, that's for the nazis and the ku klux klan, or is that the clueless clan?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sorry, I meant European. We usually call everyone whites, just like they call us blacks."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Lots of Europeans would take offence at being lumped with other Europeans, they've fought wars over that. Liz, have I ever referred to you as black? As durathror said, you're not black, and I'm not white. Kinda pink perhaps, but not white. I'm part Polish, part Scottish, and part Chinese. And didn't you tell me you were part European yourself? I don't think the term 'racially pure' has any meaning."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shook her head, but she was smiling. "It's okay, I just get a bit touchy at times. I tend to stereotype you as white, I know I shouldn't stereotype people, that's exactly what we complain whites do about aborigines."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "In fact, as my grandfather tells it, he might have married an aboriginal."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked at me. "I haven't heard this. I didn't even know you were part Chinese. So tell me about it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, as grandfather Frajnjo (that is pronounced fry-nyo) tells it, he came out here as a single Polish Jew on an assisted passage just after WW2. He'd lost most of his family to the nazis. In return for his assisted passage, he had to work where the government sent him for two years. He was a tailor by trade, so they dropped him in some remote outback settlement miles from the nearest town as a laborer. The labor camp was basically single men, and many of them didn't have good English. None of the Australian girls on the farms around or in the town would be seen dead with a wog, especially a Jewish one, so that left the local aboriginal settlement, and a couple of families of Chinese market gardeners. The Chinese families didn't associate with Australians mainly because the Australians ostracized them, they kept pretty much to themselves. The aboriginals avoided whites for the same reason, but a lot of the aboriginal girls started hanging around the camp when the guys were off duty. They started relationships with the guys, some of them even got married."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz was nodding. "Yeah, apparently it happened a lot with those labor camps. My grandfather is a German geologist, for much the same reason. A lot more never got married, just pregnant. So your grandfather might have a couple of little black bastards running around somewhere."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I had to be careful exactly what I said here. My grandad had said he thought the aboriginal girls who hung round the camp were low class, dirty, and drank too much. Mind you, he said the same about most of the European guys in the camp as well. He'd never said, but he gave me the impression he'd never had sex with any of the aboriginal girls. That impression could have been for grandma's consumption of course, he might have told a different tale to the guys down the pub.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He's never said. I think if he had got a girl pregnant, he'd have married her, he was brought up that way. But apparently he went into town one day because he wanted some cloth, some thread and so on to make some clothes, and it turned out the only shop that sold anything like that was run by the Chinese. They sold their produce, but they also sold a lot of other things as well. He was making clothes for the guys in the camp, and some of the aboriginals as well, and he used to go into town every Saturday to buy things from the Chinese. He got to know them quite well, and married one of the daughters."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz chuckled. "Yeah, I guess they were in much the same boat as the aboriginals, none of the locals wanted to socialize with them. But with a camp full of single guys the girls had an option of marrying out. Like I said, my mother's father is a German geologist. We think the rest are probably full blood aboriginal, but we're not sure who my father's father was. My father was one of the stolen children, they took him from his mother when he was three months old and stuck him with some white family. But we know who his mother is, and they've been reunited. She's not sure who his father is though, but he could be someone from a labor camp. Hey! maybe he's your grandad! Then we'd be related!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I had to laugh at this. "I think it would be a huge ask, he was in a labor camp down south, but hey, wouldn't it be great if we're long lost relatives! I'll have to ask him discretely one day, when grandma's not in hearing range." I put my arm around her shoulder and gave her a brotherly hug. She did the same to me. "Should I call you cous'?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, it probably isn't true anyway. I just said it to see how you would react."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Did I pass?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yep!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor interrupted "Liz, in my culture, no child is sure who is the father, but everyone knows who their mother is. What is important is who cares for you, who assumes the role of parent."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And besides, there's so much raping goes on in all the wars they've fought around the world that lots of people are more ethnically mixed than they think. Not to mention all the women having a little bit on the side. But Liz, we're all individuals, judge us by our own actions, not other people's. Which gets me back to my original point, you're not looking in the right places for a boyfriend."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz put her right hand on top of nalini's patting her hand and mine. "Most of the whites I've come in contact with weren't nice people. You guys are helping me unlearn that. Besides, both of you are accepted by my parents, did you know? My mum even said ... er ... 'he's not aboriginal, but he's a good boy anyway.'"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Liz, that's nice to know. Your parents are good people. That's what counts, not skin color or where you grew up, or what accent you speak with. Now, getting back to the boyfriend topic, what I used to do was classify men into several categories. There's ones like danny and korum, sorcerers and potential life companions, then there's friends, you can consider a sexual relationship with them, but it probably won't ever make the grade into category one, then there's the hunks that aren't friendship or partner material, but they turn you on at the time, and then there's the rest, you don't consider them for anything at all. I'd classify rupert as a potential friend, even if he is attracted to you because you're exotic. Don't forget we girls wear mini skirts to attract men, but once you have their attention, you have to move on beyond that level of attraction. So use your dark skin to attract his attention, it's an advantage you have over all the white girls he knows. Then go on and do something with his attention, so you can progress to being friends, or lovers, or both. I think going to bed with a German prince would be good for you, but that's going to be my last word on the subject. I think you should get laid, by a good man, it'll do you the world of good. But only with someone you feel comfortable having sex with, otherwise don't do something you'll regret later."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz put on a mock grimace. "I'll think about it, that's all."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor added "Liz, if you fall off a horse, the remedy is to get back in the saddle as soon as possible. You haven't done that, which is what makes it harder."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  We slept late. Everyone had left, except for the servants cleaning. The sun had been up for several hours. We washed and dressed rapidly, then headed down to the breakfast room.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The breakfast room is on the east side of the castle, with a large open area that looks out into a private garden. There were small tables set out everywhere, brightly colored awnings, flowing plants and so on to make the place inviting. It made me think of holiday resort. There were a number of groups of people eating. We spotted rupert sitting with the other three cavaliers, and at a nearby table liz and paula talking.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stopped to say hi to the four soldiers. After the initial pleasantries, I asked "What are your plans for today?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They shrugged. "Do some sightseeing perhaps." one of them suggested.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert added "The lady Elizabeth has agreed to do some sightseeing with me. Why?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, it's just that the king normally has a work out session, including some mock fighting, around mid morning. We will be attending, I thought you all might like to attend too, and perhaps participate if you like. Then you can sightsee in the afternoon."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They looked at one another, nodded. Tobias replied "I think we might enjoy that. Would you convey us there?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No worries, we'll collect you when we're about to go. Prince Rupert, if you have other arrangements, then some other day perhaps. "}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We took our leave, and joined liz and paula. "Hi guys!" Paula smiled, then frowned. "I've got no secrets with you lot. Did you have to go and tell liz about us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I chuckled. "Well paula, if it embarrasses you, don't do it. If you do it, don't be embarrassed about it. We're not."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She sighed. "I just don't want prospero to know. I certainly don't want him to know I'm pregnant."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He's going to have to know some time." nalini responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, well, if we ever get married he can think the child is his. It's less hassle that way. If we don't get married, then it's none of his business."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Don't you want the child to know who its father is?" Liz asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is it important? I mean, in an ideal world, danny and i'd get married, and there would be no problem. As it is, it'll only cause problems won't it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shook my head. "Paula, I think it should all be out in the open."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini nodded. "I agree. But we also have prospero's feelings to consider. He's going to be hurt when he finds out, and the longer you wait, the more hurt he will be."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula looked exasperated. "Hey, I didn't ask to get pregnant! If i wasn't, there wouldn't be any issue, would there? There's no reason for prospero to know who I've had sex with in the past. It's not his child, does it concern him? If we get married, I plan to tell him it's his. Okay?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula, if it were out in the open, you wouldn't have to be defensive about it." nalini said placatingly. "But let's not spoil breakfast. You know our opinions, but you are the child's mother. We will respect your decisions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula made a wry smile. "It's okay, I'm not upset, just a little annoyed that ra'anor engineered a situation like that. She doesn't think it matters, but she's not from my shadow either."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But she knows you don't want prospero to know, she won't spill the beans to him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, but she'll make a point of telling everyone else, until I'm forced to tell prospero. The more people who know, the more chance of some chance remark being made."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey paula, I won't tell anyone. I'm not a gossip. But can we talk about it now, so I don't feel tempted to ask questions later?" Liz asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I thought we had talked about it. What else do you want to know?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I guess I'm curious. It doesn't make for any awkwardness between you and nalini?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think we all shook our heads. Nalini replied "If it had been sex for the sake of sex, or they'd tried to do it behind my back, then things would be awkward. But we treated it as a special occasion. Danny was training paula, so it was a lot like an initiation ceremony."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula added "Neither of them reacted how I'd expect them too. Danny wasn't guilty about it, nalini wasn't condemning. It was more like 'hey, it's happened, that's cool. We enjoyed it, did you?', so I don't feel guilty or awkward. Nalini and I get along well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shook her head. "I don't think I could handle my boyfriend having sex with say you or nalini."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini said "Well, if danny were someone else, I might be upset. But danny and I are linked, I know that it can't affect how we feel about each other. Besides, I asked him to train paula. If it comes to it, I might agree for him to train you liz, but that's something we can discuss if the time ever arrives. I know he won't ever go behind my back..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well he can't can he?" paula interrupted. "He's telepathic with you, so you'd always know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But that's not the point" I replied. "Even if we weren't telepathic, I would never go behind nalini's back. She has to know and agree. And besides, since it's happened, paula has stopped throwing herself at me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, that's only 'cause prosero's around!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But you wouldn't go behind his back either, would you?" nalini responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, but if we ever split up..." she left it dangling suggestively, a big grin plastered across her face.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You guys are weird!" Liz exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Tell you something else that's weird" paula responded, grinning widely. "Ever since it happened, nalini finds me sexually attractive!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The expression on liz's face was precious. "I don't think I want to know!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "Paula is overstating the case. I've never had a lesbian experience, unlike paula. She finds me sexually attractive!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula shrugged. "I'm not going to deny it. I enjoyed it at the time, but I prefer guys. I can also enjoy two girls and a guy, with the right couple." She looked right at the two of us, with her little miss innocent expression, defying liz to pass some remark.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "There is a bond that formed between the three of us. But a manage a trois isn't acceptible to any of us, including paula. Could you imagine trying to explain that to your parents, paula?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hell no, they'd die of embarrassment. So would I. I want to be respectably married eventually."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, have we shocked you?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ummm, maybe a little. Are you sure it's safe for me to be in the same house as you guys?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sure. Nalini and I aren't into treesomes, and even if we were, we'd always respect your wishes. Just don't get offended if I don't make a pass at you!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Erm, I'd be relieved actually."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We ate our breakfast, and the conversation turned to other things. We sat talking for a while to allow our breakfast to digest. Liz agreed to accompany us to the training grounds to watch us and rupert train.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Finally we collected the cavaliers and rupert. "We're going to change into some training clothes. If you want to participate, ask the servents to get you some as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The three of us returned to our suite, and I presented liz with two large boxes of condoms. "Jeez! How many do you think I need?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, it saves you having to ask us for more. You have our blessing, it's up to you now. Only sleep with him if you're comfortable with it. Otherwise don't, okay?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She nodded. "Okay, thanks. I get butterflies when I think about it." She was turning something over in her mind. I waited. Finally she blurted out "Was nalini serious about having you ... train... me like paula?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, but only if it's necessary. You'd have to find me sexually attractive, or it just wouldn't work. You'd have to be comfortable with it, have to want it to happen." I smiled "You're not exactly throwing yourself at me, are you? Don't even think about it liz, it ain't gonna happen, and I won't be starting anything."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She suddenly straightened, and looked me in the eye. "Well, if nalini wasn't on the scene, I mean if you were single, I could probably go for you." Then she snorted "Huh! I'd probably have to fight paula then! I never really found white guys attractive, but you're not like others. I'd rather we left it at friends, I think we can be great friends, and I'm not sure I can handle it if you and I did have sex while you're with nalini."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's cool, I prefer it that way myself. But hey, if I were single, I'd prefer you to paula, so you wouldn't have to fight her."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She smiled. "Thanks danny. I appreciate that." She touched my arm. "Now do you wanna leave while I get changed?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I thought of a smart comment, but refrained from making it. "Give us a yell when you're ready."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I talked about what happened while we changed, but there wasn't much to say. We'd both prefer to leave things as friends, and avoid any further complications to our lives. So much for quietly getting married and living happily ever after while sliding into old age.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When liz walked out into our sitting area, we were already there in our lycra, preparing to fetch some stuff from home. Nalini and I were linked, and picturing our training gear, packed in bags where we'd left it. There was a sense of something extending out, followed some moments later by a sense of contact, and then we pulled back, much like reeling in a fish. Two bags of sporting gear suddenly appeared on the floor in front of us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey cool! Where'd that come from?" Liz was wearing red and purple lycra tights and a blue and green body suit. Maybe not quite color coordinated, but you could certainly see where she was. Nalini was wearing something similar, but in dark blue and green. I was the odd one out in black bicycle shorts and a t-shirt.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Home. This is ours. We didn't want to lug it all the way here." We unpacked our fencing gear, along with two blunted but otherwise real samurai swords. "Shall we go?" Nalini draped the jacket around her body, partially obscuring things.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Actually, I might just grab a t-shirt."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We entered the sitting room, where a similarly dressed paula was talking with rupert. Rupert was wearing what had to be padded fencing gear, presumably provided by the servants. There was a mask and training sword beside him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 His eyes travelled up and down nalini, then up and down liz. Nalini said "Hey, we're decent, everything's covered."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He coughed discretely and lowered his eyes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula added "Yeah rupert, if you're embarrassed, don't look."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You girls are certainly different from the ones back home." He spied the swords we carried. "Do you girls fence as well?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I do." nalini replied. "Paula and liz are learning. Let's collect your friends."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert fell in beside liz, I walked between nalini and paula. The other three contrived to fall in behind us, no doubt to obtain a better look at the girls' legs.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As we walked, I explained. "This is actually the king's private training arena, but it is also available to any guests at the palace. He works out here every day. He also invites a selection of soldiers from the army to work out with him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why?" tobias asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It seems to promote loyalty. They put their names down, and lots are drawn to choose who goes on a particular day. They get to trade blows with the king, he yells at them if they pull any punches, normally he beats six or eight of them together, then they all have a drink with their king, get to share his bath, and have a feast for lunch. It's very popular with the soldiers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's a bit unusual isn't it?" tobias asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "King amrik is an unusual man. His nickname is the Bull."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We rounded a corner into the open, and we could hear amrik bellowing "Come on men! I expect you to hit hard! Surely five of you can defeat me!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ahead was the wooden building that was the king's dojo. Today, being a fine spring day, the shutters on the walls had been removed, leaving only the pillars supporting the roof. In one corner was a complete set of gym equipment, where amrik worked out with weights. On the other side, a number of courtiers dresses in fencing gear were training, although right now most had stopped to watch the king. In center stage was amrik, dressed only in a loin cloth. He had the corded muscles of a professional body builder, coupled with a dancer's lythe grace. He was armed with a wooden sword, dancing and weaving among five figures similarly armed. Compared to him they looked puny, and try as they might, they could not touch him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Suddenly he moved like a panther, whacking three of them hard enough to cause them to sit down abruptly. The fourth threw all caution to the winds, not trying to block, and smacked the king a buffet in the ear just as the king's own wooden sword hit him in the guts. The king roared defiantly, kicked the legs from under his fifth assailant, and made a chopping motion at his head as he fell. Then he stretched out his hand to the one who had hit him, hauling him to his feet. "Hah! Well done bono!" He clapped him on the shoulder, then hugged him. "A man after my own heart! You've earned a gold piece for that!" He didn't seem to be breathing heavily.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He spied our group, and called out "Welcome! Danny, nalini, will you fence with me later?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sure! Just give us a chance to warm up."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero came over to us, kissed paula. "I'd like to do some fencing as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm sure we can fit you in. You might like to see what the cavaliers can do as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now that's a good idea." He turned to the four cavaliers. "I'd like to see your style, then maybe we can have a little contest afterward."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The four of us cleared an area for our own training, and did some stretching and warming up. Once we started, we'd have a crowd of our own. I looked at us. Dressed as they were, there was little to imagine about their figures. Nalini is slim, but you can see she has muscles like a dancer. Paula is almost skinny, but she has put on muscle over the past six months. Liz by contrast is padded and rounded. Normally I consider myself muscular, but beside amrik I would look slim.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We started with the two katas that liz knows. Prospero joined us. The sight of the five of us performing the stylized movements almost in unison always draws a crowd. Then I set liz to perform some solo exercises while the four of us went through the katas that paula and prospero know. By the time that finished, all of us were sweating.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Next nalini and i watched the other three perform some movements, then I taught liz a new movement while nalini supervised the other two. Then nalini and i went on to perform six other katas. Prospero went to fence with rupert and the others. We set paula and liz some exercises to practice together.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The last three katas were performed with swords. Done properly, the swords whistle as you move. We had a crowd by now, including amrik.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There are two katas that you taught me last time. I would like to do them with you." he stated.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Please do." We performed two more katas, then stopped for a breather.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We'll teach you another kata this time around."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'd like that. It's good to learn new techniques, otherwise the training becomes stale, and the challenge goes out of it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I went through the new kata once, then we went through again slowly with amrik. Part way through I stopped to set liz and paula sparring, which meant I had to watch them while nalini taught the king. Looking around, I realised our audience had grown - nearby was king charles, looking incongruous in his high heeled shoes, and to one side was cromwell with matthew and stephen.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The sparring wasn't a free for all, I kept stopping and correcting what they did, and limited the number of moves they could make. Liz has good hand eye coordination, and learns quickly. Finally I stopped them, and watched amrik. He has the moves, he picks up new katas quickly, with little need for correction. Between nalini and I, we ran through the new kata six times.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, time out. Amrik, you learn very rapidly. We'll repeat that one tomorrow. Now, if you'll excuse us, nalini and I want to do some free form sparring."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good, I'll watch!" he grinned.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Free form sparring is exactly that, anything goes, except that we don't aim for the eyes, and we pull punches. It's the only time we have to quieten down our telepathic ability, otherwise we telegraph our moves to each other. When done at the black belt level, it often winds up that we circle each other for a while, then with a sudden flurry of moves someone wins.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After fifteen minutes, we took a breather, and dressed in our fencing gear. We started out one on one with amrik, but he would defeat us easily. The two of us together were good enough to defeat him. We stopped for rest, and he went on to challenge rupert, prospero, tobias, james and robert together. Unfortunately for him, he was soundly beaten. Prospero was almost good enough to hold his own against amrik. Of the cavaliers, prince rupert was by far the best, and used a slightly different style from his English companions. He and prospero defeated the king three times in a row; then he put up a spirited defence against prospero while amrik rested.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is always good when you train with us, because otherwise it is very rare for any of them to defeat me. Prince rupert is good, he is making prospero work!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 While we sat, king charles came over to us. "Your majesty, I haven't fenced for some years now, but would it be possible for me to practice tomorrow?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course your majesty. Any king worthy of his crown should know how to use a sword, you are more than welcome. While you are here, this is your second home."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I became aware that matthew, cromwell and stephen were making remarks about the girls:}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Girls should be forbidden to fight!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They are dressed like sluts!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's absolutely disgusting, you can see everything!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini suddenly stood up. "Come on paula and liz, this is our honor at stake." She drew her training sword. I gave mine to paula, amrik handed his to liz. Nalini had undone her padded fencing jacket, now she removed it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini sauntered over, left hand on hip, the other holding the sword so it rested on her shoulder. Liz and paula followed behind, paula doing a passable imitation of nalini. Liz was content just to walk and hold the sword in both hands.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini stopped in front of matthew, and stuck her chest out. "What's the matter boys? Got a bad case of lustful thoughts?" Matthew was staring at her chest, stephen at paula's crotch.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Madam!" cromwell spluttered. "Your attire!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini's sword snaked out to caress cromwell's cheek. "I've told you before, if a human body offends you, go somewhere you won't see it. And since we're made in god's image, that means you find god offensive. Think about it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula's sword snaked out to catch stephen under the chin, and lever his head up. He looked scared. "Hey, didn't anyone ever tell you, it's rude to stare?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell found his voice again "I will never allow such attire in my england!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Your England? Isn't that the sin of pride? And shouldn't the people decide what clothing they find offensive? But this isn't your england. If you can't stand the heat, stay out of the kitchen. And if you have lustful thoughts, then that's your problem, not mine."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She stepped back slightly so she could look at matthew. "You like looking at my tits do you? Do they excite you? Do you get thoughts of touching them?" Matthew was looking very uncomfortable, red faced, with beads of persperation on his upper lip. "Hmm, I see you are all too ready to stare when you think it will not be noticed, but you have to keep up the pretence of being offended. You're a hypocrite." Nalini moved the sword to lift matthew's jerkin. "Oh my, I've embarrassed the poor boy. He's lost his erection."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 By now there were titters amongs the watchers. Amrik, who had been scowling at the remarks was trying not to laugh at their discomfort. Even king charles was looking amused.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini turned to stephen. He was watching her like a snake. "Paula's crotch excites you does it? Do you get the urge to reach out and touch it? Or maybe you'd like to get close enough to sniff? She's been working out you know, she's all sweaty, lots of nice odours for you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell looked like he was about to explode. "Madame, control yourself!" he snapped.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You control yourself! Don't stare, and don't pass remarks!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He controlled himself, and turned away, closing his eyes and putting his hands over his ears.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Stephen, you're another hypocrite, pretending to be offended when all you really want to do is have a good look." Nalini used her sword again to move stephen's jacket aside and reveal his crotch area. "Oh dear, we've embarrassed him too, and he's lost his erection."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She reached out and tapped cromwell on the shoulder. "Hey cromwell, turn around please, I'm speaking to you." Her translation spell was active, so it wouldn't matter if he stoppered his ears, he would still hear what she said. "Now boys, this is just a little lesson in manners. It's rude to stare, and it's rude to pass remarks. If god's handiwork offends you, you're sad cases. Remember, 'If thine eye offend thee, then pluck it out'. and also 'Remove the log from your own eye before attempting to remove the spec from someone else's'. Now, before you go, you boys are going to control your lustful thoughts, and each of you will appologise for your rudeness."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell looked as if he could strangle someone, but he held himself in check. "As far as we are concerned, your attire and your behaviour is entirely unsuitable. I will not appologise." he stated icily.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then you'd better leave. But don't forget that pride comes before a fall."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned on his heel. "Come matthew, stephen, let us leave this god forsaken place." He walked a couple of paces, and waited for the others.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, not you two. You were even ruder than he was. So you two can appologise before you leave. Matthew, you were staring at my tits. Appologise now!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew was red in the face. He stammered and stuttered, but finally managed "I.. I... appologise lady. I should not have stared."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Appology accepted, don't do it again. And I appologise for embarrassing you. Now please go and tell cromwell he's in the wrong, and I expect him to appologise. Stephen! Don't slink off like that. You were staring at paula's crotch, you owe her an appology. Speak up, we can't hear you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He stammered an appology, and fled. Nalini turned to paula. "Thanks girls." She turned to the crowd. "We don't mind guys admiring, but we find sanctimonious hypocrites like them offensive, they watch but pretend they don't, and then they condemn us for our clothes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In the world where honor is important, you have to defend it publicly. Prospero had just reminded me of that, because he was heading rapidly towards us. I stood and bellowed "CROMWELL! You have insulted my wife, and you have insulted me! By rights I can challenge you to a duel, but we both know you would die! Are you prepared to die to back up your allegations?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Shit! I should have challenged him myself!" nalini exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<It would probably be bad form here. A man is supposed to duel for his wife's honor, not the other way around.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<I hope it wasn't bad form for me to get up and confront him then.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<I think you did the right thing. I should only have to stand up for you when they defy you.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell turned round. Like me, he had very little choice. "Would you commit murder?" he called back.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I pitched my voice to carry, no longer shouting. I wasn't going to walk towards him. "You started it. You called my wife a slut, and in public. Now you have a choice. Prove it or retract it." I put on my samurai stare, with the corners of my mouth turned down, my eyes narrowed, nostrils flaired.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And if I turn my back and walk away?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then unfortunately for you, you will die. It would not be murder, but suicide. As far as the public will be concerned, you chose to appologise by dying." Would I kill him? I'd feel bad that it happened, but if he was stiff necked enough not to appologise, then in this society, there was little scope for not killing him. Mind you, I could run rings around him, so it might be acceptable to humiliate him by cutting his clothes off bit by bit until he stood there naked but for his socks. He would probably stand there, refuse to pick up a sword, which could be a way out - if he refused to fight, he'd be a coward, and he'd be deemed to have appologised.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He walked slowly back toward me, staring into my eyes. I stared back. I had to give him credit, he didn't appear to be afraid. "The great cromwell, would be leader of men. One who betrays his principles by telling lies. You're out of line, and you know it. Now appologize, unless your pride prevents you." I kept my voice level, outwardly I appeared calm, but my heart was beating faster.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He didn't look around, he still looked directly into my eyes. I stared back unblinkingly. Then he lowered his eyes. He took a deep breath, then spoke loudly, pitching his voice to carry. "I unreservedly withdraw my remarks about your lady wife. I spoke in the heat of the moment. I humbly beg your forgiveness for my loutish behaviour."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very well, I accept your appololgy. Now you should also appologise to the princess nalini, the lady paula and the lady elizabeth." Nalini walked forward to join me. Cromwell repeated his appology to her. I called liz over, and cromwell appologized to her.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula was no longer my responsibility, but prospero's, so I had to make this look good for him. "Prospero, are you happy to accept cromwell's appology to the lady paula, or would you challenge him yourself?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was standing beside amrik and charles. "You've saved me the bother, after all, we can only kill him once." So paula came forward to accept cromwell's appology. That business finally over, cromwell turned on his heel, collected his two companions, and walked rapidly away.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We returned to sit with amrik, charles and prospero. "I've probably ruined things for prospero now." nalini stated. "Do any of you think there was a better way to handle that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah" I replied. "You embarrassed them, they'll think very hard before they try that again. The other two appologised, so they know they were guilty. But I'm not sure if it's socially acceptable for you to challenge cromwell to a duel."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik said "It's fine by me. He insulted you nalini, it's your right to challenge him. You're a warrior."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero shook his head. "There is nothing wrong about a woman standing up for her honor, but challenging cromwell to a duel might be overstepping the bounds a little. I don't mean any offence nalini. You did the right thing by insisting he appologise, and danny did the right thing by challenging him when he refused. I'm just glad that you saved me from having to challenge him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles smiled. "It gladdens my heart to see them discomforted so. Cromwell is more stiff necked than the others though, I did not think he would appologise."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik clapped charles on the shoulder, causing him to stagger a little. "You hoped it would come to a duel, and cromwell be killed! 'Twould save you some trouble, hey?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles smiled. "It would be convenient, I must admit. But even with Cromwell out of the way, 'twill be not easy to accomplish the restoration."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nay, as prospero says, we need cromwell to be alive, and publicly recant his doings."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He is a stiff necked man, he will not recant. To him it be his religious duty as a puritan."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, prospero is good at getting things to change. Speaking of which, I need to change out of my sweaty clothes and bathe." He stood back, inflated his chest and bellowed "All right everyone, fun's over! Go and bathe, lunch will be served in about an hour in the marqui." He turned back to charles. "If you will excuse me?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles smiled and inclined his head. "Certainly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik collected his soldiers and they headed toward the bathhouse. Most of the others followed. Rupert asked "Where are they all going?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero replied "The king has a luxurious bath house yonder. It has hot baths, tepid baths, cold baths, a steam room and a massage room. We all need to bathe after our exercise, most will do so with the king."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Even the soldiers?" Charles asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Certainly. It is an honor for them to share the king's bath. After they will feast with him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Meseems it be an odd manner of being king." Charles observed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "True, but he is a fighting man who spent time in the ranks. All the soldiers adore him." Prospero started walking toward the palace. The rest of us followed him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What would happen should one injure him during their fights?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why nothing. He will have a thick ear from today's bout, the soldier who gave him that will earn a gold piece for his efforts. As you saw, he is the best swordsman in the army, quite possibly the best in the whole of Aquilonia. He chafes at wearing the crown though.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "In fact, often in the past he would slip out of the palace in the evening, and down to one of the taverns the soldiers frequent, and spend the evening drinking with them. He does not do that much these days, but he says the men will respect a commander who can beat them in a fight and then drink them under the table. I would never have believed it, had I not seen it with my own eyes. The men would follow him to the gates of hell itself!" I could see the hero worship shining in prospero's eyes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero, you would follow him too, would you not?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "True danny. We fought together during the civil war, he is my best friend as well as my king. And to be honest, I am glad I persuaded him to accept the crown, he does a much better job than I could."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You made him king?" Charles seemed disbelieving.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "At the end of the civil war, there were several of us who had claim to the throne." prospero explained. "My father was cousin to the deposed king. The king had no living issue, he had killed all his children, all his brothers and sisters and their children, and as many of his other relatives as he could. My father the old duke was then next in line to the throne, but he died during the campaign. There were others more remotely related, but where they would have supported my father, they would not support me, and we faced further civil war to choose the next king. None of the other claimants would have made a good king, though I daresay they would say the same of me. The army were all loyal to amrik, and he has a knack of inspiring people to follow him. I persuaded him to accept the crown, and that stopped further civil war. The other claimants saw the wisdom of supporting amrik, where they would not support their enemies. I suspect they thought him but a simple soldier, and that they could manipulate him. Whereas he has proved to be a canny and able king, quite the best we have ever had."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why then does he seek to curb the king's powers with the parliament?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We have seen firsthand the evil that despots do, we have in our history seen wastrels and simpletons take the throne, their only qualification that their father wore the crown. We believe there is a better way, we have studied parliamentary democracy in a number of separate realms, including whence danny and nalini come. A king is just a man, like any other, he does not have a direct line to god in heaven."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then you do not subscribe to the view that a king is god's representative on earth?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, I do not. That leads to the people worshipping the king as a god, and the king believing he can do no wrong. That means bad government, and then the people suffer. A man is king only because the army and the nobles support him. Once he loses that support, he can no longer remain king. You yourself have had the misfortune to discover this. However, the idea of a king is so entrenched in people's minds that they have made cromwell king in all but name."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then you think there is a chance a restoration?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I do. With cromwell out of the way, there will be a power vaccuum, and people will want a king to fill that vaccuum. We must engineer that cromwell go, without resorting to killing him. He has already agreed to dismantle the terror when he returns. Cromwell must publicly abdicate, and announce the restoration, otherwise there will be a prolonged civil war."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would have him tried for treason, and executed, along with his cronies." Charles was vehement.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That would make a martyr of him." I replied. "If anything, his support would increase, and people would begin to treat him like a saint. He does not fear death, he would use his death as a position statement, and you would never be rid of him. He has to recant publicly, and the key to that is his religious ferver."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles looked at me. "I see wheels within wheels. Had you killed him in a duel, his supporters would claim that I had had him murdered, and would continue the fight. Yes, I begin to like the idea of him recanting more and more. He would be publicly humiliated, his supporters would lose their fervor."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I don't claim to be politicly adept, certainly not in the modern politics, but I began to realize that a modern education and modern communications really do broaden the mind. Charles wasn't stupid, but it seemed that many of the concepts we mentioned were not very familiar to him. To him we must have seemed machiavellian.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As we passed the breakfast room, enyil emerged from inside, and came up to us. "Ah, your majesty! Would you care to take a walk around the gardens with me, or possibly some refreshments? Lunch will not be for another hour."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He beamed at her. "How fortunate! I was about to lose my companions, they must bathe and change. I think I should like some tea, and then a pleasant stroll around the gardens."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We left them, and headed off to our apartments. Prospero commented to me "I've asked that someone always be with charles, and someone always with cromwell. We must not allow them to feel unwelcome, and we must not allow them to have too much time by themselves."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded "Yes, keep them slightly off balance, that way they are more maleable. Give them time to think and they might decide to be more stubborn. You'll probably find that works more easily with charles he's a noble, and you know how to treat visiting nobles."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think you're right there. Cromwell and the others do not approve of many things. It's sad really, to be so poor in joy of life."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They are human though, so a risky strategy would be to divide them from each other, take them individually on tours and the like, and tempt them into enjoying themselves. If that doesn't work, then take them on individual religious retreats. Cut them out of the process."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I plan to cut all of them out of the negotiation process, although if king charles wants supporters there we will have to include an equal number of cromwell's supporters."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe the initial meeting should be just charles and cromwell, and introduce others for the talks?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is my thought. Part of the problem with introducing others is that cromwell has his cronies and advisers with him, charles does not. But then he ruled as a despot, he may not have close advisers or friends."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We had reached our apartment. Tobias, Robert and James headed into their rooms, the rest of us entered into the suite of apartments we shared with prospero. Prospero turned to the rest of us and announced "I invite all of you to share the main bathroom. Prince Rupert, I realize you might be embarrassed to bathe with others, if you prefer to use the bathroom in your chambers, please do so."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked hesitant. "You have told me that communal bathing is the norm here. Do men and women bathe together?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Usually. We five will do so."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And none of you will be embarrassed?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I do not think so."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula added "I was at first, because we don't do that where I come from, but you get used to us. Once you've seen a naked body, you get used to it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz added "When in rome, do as the romans do."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert smiled wanly. "I believe I will be somewhat embarrassed, but if I am invited, I think I should."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 And so we were six in prospero's main bath. It was a good deal larger than the one we shared with liz, probably closer to the size of many people's backyard swimming pool. There was also a smaller bath, probably the size of a typical spa bath, filled with tepid water. The idea was that you cleaned yourself first, then soaked in the hot water, then when that became too much, you moved to the cooler pool. Rupert and Liz managed to wash and enter the hot tub without becoming too embarrassed. Once in the hot tub, the water hides some detail, and it is easier to sit there without being embarrassed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 While we soaked, Prospero explained "We are thinking of remodeling this. I would like to include a steam room..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The word's sauna." Paula interjected.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thanks. We would like to have a sauna..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What's a sauna?" Rupert asked. Paula and Prospero explained, then Prospero continued. "We want to install a sauna, and a shower and a proper spa bath like danny and nalini have, but for the latter we need electricity, so we might settle for the sauna."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Electricity?" rupert queried. "What's that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled "We don't have it, you don't have it. Danny and the girls have it where they come from. How would you describe it, harnessed lightning perhaps?" We digressed into electricity, our modern world, and that lead us in a round about way to governments. Several times we interrupted the conversation as one or more of us got out to jump into the cool plunge pool.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  As we were towelling off, I concluded "We don't have all the answers rupert, but we have been through things your world has yet to try, we have a better idea about what works and what doesn't. We've been passing that onto amrik, now we would like to try to pass that onto your world. But for that to work, the rulers have to agree, we need to educate people about how it works, and of course your world will develop its own version that works for it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert wrapped the towel about his middle. He was trying not to look at the girls. "I feel much happier about what you are proposing to do now. It is a compromise of sorts between what the king wants and what cromwell wants, but you have seen similar compromises work in your homeland. I should probably attend some of these discussions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero had his towel draped over his shoulder, and was quite open about looking at the girls. "I would like you to attend some of the discussions, and danny, you should also attend. Today however will be a preliminary meeting, just myself, charles and cromwell. Hopefully it will establish the parameters, framework and scope of the negotiations. So you are free to sight see this afternoon."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Lunch was served in the open area near the training ground. There was a marqui set up to protect guests from the sun. We bumped into durathror, ra'anor, his sister imladril, queen of the viharani, and her consort iskandor. They were undoubtedly on the lookout for us, but since we are all vegetarians, it stood to reason we would be congregated at the vegetarian end of the food.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 You could see the family resemblance between durathror and imladril, she has the same coppery skin, blonde hair arranged in about fifty beaded braids, and leaf green eyes, but is tinier again, being only four foot nine inches tall, with the small bone structure to match. She looks about sixteen, but is over eight hundred years old, which makes her about four hundred years younger than her brother.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After we greeted each other, nalini and I helped ourselves to the food, and then sat down at their table, where they had saved us seats. Imladril remarked "You should pay us a visit, your dog would love to see you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We were going to come by later today. We only got in last night. I think we will have to find other lodgings, I don't know if prospero wants a dog in his apartment."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril smiled. "You should stay with us, but we'd have to put you up on the floor. Rhiannon is happy, but she would be happier if you were around."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Iskandor added "You might find it preferable to stay where you are for now though, durathror and ra'anor have told us about your guests."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril added "How do you rate your chances of stopping the civil war?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, we're quietly confident." nalini replied. "Cromwell has had to admit his reasons were flawed. He just needs some more work to come round."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's not just the civil war though." I added. "There's the terror, the witch persecutions and the religious fanatacism. That also makes the puritans risky because they might decide we are pagans, and refuse to have anything to do with us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The others nodded. Imladril replied "When durathror briefed us, I thought that their religious fanaticism would be the hardest thing to overcome. But he seems to feel that you and he have turned their fanaticism in a different direction."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror wiped his hands on a napkin, nodding. "If we try to cure their fanaticism, we would severely alter their personalities, and they would revert later. But what danny and nalini started is to use their fanaticism and direct it against their former actions. Properly harnessed, I think it will work well. Convince them they are miserable sinners, and they will try to do good works to atone for their sins."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He drank a swig of wine, wiped his moustache. His eyes were shining. "Did you know I spent some years studying to be a priest? The christian faith was sweeping through many shadows, including those I was frequenting. They wanted to persecute me as a pagan and an elf, but I foiled them by asking to convert. The bishop was overjoyed when he discovered that the holy wafer did not burn me, because to him it meant I had a soul to save. And so I spent several years studying their faith. Like all great faiths, it has much to recommend it, but also much to condemn it. But it means I have an understanding of cromwell's fanaticism."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini nodded, her mouth full of food. I was about to attempt swallowing quickly when I remembered that they were telepathic, even though durathror had been speaking english. Iskandor and Imladril do not speak english. I replied <<I realized you had studied christianity when you called the jesus figure various terms for satan. It was a masterful stroke, cromwell hasn't been his usual confident self this morning.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added <<Yes, at training this morning you could see he was angry, and in turmoil. I think that's why he let things get to a point where danny had to challenge him before he appologized for his remarks.>>.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They didn't know that story, so we told it. After that we talked about many things over the course of a leisurely lunch. The vegetarian part of the lunch consisted mostly of what I would classify as middle eastern delicacies, plus cheeses, fruit pies and fresh fruit followed by coffee. The meat eaters were treated to a spit roast of a large animal like a cow, several casseroles of meat or fish, including one that looked and smelled like a curry, a selection of meat pies, baked fish, the list went on. It may not have been quite up to the quality of French haut cuisine, but there was a wide variety, plenty of it and I'm told it was tasty. There was also copious quantities of wine and beer.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were still lingering over coffee and a sweet wine when prospero and paula walked over. He was appologetic. "You pardon, your majesty, I am remiss on my duties. I should have paid my respects to you much earlier!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril laughed. "Cut the formalities prospero! I am just Imladril. I know you are busy with proud nobles who will have their noses out of joint if you visit them in the wrong order, plus another king to pander to."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A servant dragged two chairs over for them to sit down at out table. "Oh, king Charles is no bother. He knows he owes us his life, and is a guest here. We treat him politely, amuse him like any other important noble, and he is happy. Plus he also knows we are working on how to have him restored to the throne without further bloodshed. Those cursed puritans are the bane of my life. They don't like this, they don't like that, the food is too spicey, or too foreign, they complain that the whole kingdom has loose morals and they refuse to bathe or change their underwear!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Does that include cromwell?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, he is being more reasonable, especially since you forced him to appoligize this morning. He has the intelligence to be a ruler, he is behaving himself. What ever happened to him last night has disquietened him. My spies tell me he spent this morning studying his bible, and again after his humiliation he returned to his room, dismissed his companions, and began reading his bible. I am unsure whether that is a god sign or a bad sign." He stopped to pour himself some coffee, waving away the servant.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You might refill this pot of coffee though." The servant nodded and departed. Prospero continued "The others are either self important petty nobles or money grubbing merchants who think they are too good for the likes of us. Stephen has been overheard calling nalini and paula jezza something, I take it is some term of opprobium."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Jezabel. She was a whore in one of the chapters of the bible."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero's lips thinned. "If he says that in my hearing, I will call him out!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril commented "Keep them under observation prospero, but do nothing rash yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What is this about bathing?" ra'anor asked. "Do they behave like savages, wearing the same clothing until it rots?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Cromwell did bathe last night, and he put on clean underclothing this morning. I think he has taken nalini's advice about cleanliness and godliness. King charles had a bath last night, and washed himself this morning. He had clean clothes last night, and again this morning. After his walk in the garden with enyil, he gave all his soiled clothes to the servants, insisted on clean clothes being brought for lunch. If anything, he will cause problems if we cannot provide him with a large wardrobe. Tobias, James and Robert did not wash themselves this morning, but they did bathe after their exercises. I think they will bathe regularly if we remind them. Rupert is quite clean so far."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini remarked "Germans have a reputation for being clean, whereas the English have a reputation for bathing once a week, whether they need it or not."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero pulled a face. "I think if they do not bathe for a week, amrik will throw them out of the palace, and put them into the stables!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril advised "Keep them under observation today. Any who refuse to bathe tonight or tomorrow morning, or who put their dirty underclothing back on, should be publicly humiliated by being forcibly stripped and bathed in public. Cromwell I would warn first though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Say! I like that idea! We could take them to the large public bathes, or maybe to the horse exercise yard, where they can be thrown into the pond the horses use."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril added "You should probably have amrik pass judgement on them, so they do not feel unfairly singled out."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh of course my lady. It will be done legally. I am looking forward to this!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Iskandor asked "What are your plans for this afternoon?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, in about an hour or so, king charles, king amrik, lord oliver, the lady enyil and myself will meet for preliminary discussions. This will set the parameters and scope of the negotiations for the days that follow. Subsequently I shall meet with charles and oliver. I might invite other people, including danny and nalini, and enyil and amrik might drop in from time to time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Iskandor nodded "I might like to attend some of these meetings. Especially if some of the puritans will be invited. I think you will need us to keep an eye on them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "By all means. All of you here are welcome to attend at any time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril replied "I would like to listen in on the preliminary meeting today. After that I will decide whether to attend other sessions. But most of this is yours prospero, we cannot do the work for you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero replied "My lady, you are most welcome to attend today. I realize I will be the facilitator, but others may help sway the opinions and attitudes of the protagonists."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Iskandor replied "Then I would come too, if I may."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "You are welcome too, my lord."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula shook her head. "No way am I going! I was going to show liz and rupert around tarantia."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled "I am glad of that, my sweet. I know you would be bored with negotiations, most women would be. And really I would prefer to have people attend who are experienced in government."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  A little later, Liz and rupert wandered over. Prospero performed the introductions. "This is her royal highness Imladril, queen of the viharani, and her consort baron Iskandor. I believe you have already met her brother prince Durathror, and his consort the lady Ra'anor. This is prince Rupert of the Rhine, commander of king Charles' army."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There's hardly any army left." rupert murmered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But you have performed valiantly against overwhelming odds." Imladril replied. They chatted politely for a few minutes. Then Imladril asked "I have heard that you have been performing some dreaming practices. Do you recall much of them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Your majesty, I remember looking at strange shapes, but I do vividly recall visiting an area that at first I thought was heaven, along with some of these others. We discovered the puritans there praying, and then durathror discomforted them by revealing that the figure of jesus was in fact satan. Then we went to a garden where there was food and drink. It all was as vivid as we are here today. I have never experienced a dream before like that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril smiled as she replied "As your power grows, it will be easier to recall your dreams, and easier to have dreams where you are aware you are dreaming. Liz is learning this at present. Would you learn more of this yourself?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He flashed a quick smile. "Your majesty, there is nothing evil in this is there?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril shook her head, her beads clattering lightly. "It is no more evil than walking or running."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then your majesty, I should like to learn more of this."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril nodded. "Then prince rupert, I will lay a task upon you. In your dreams, seek out one of us. It does not matter which one of us, but each night, try to find one of us. I know it sounds simple, but it is not as easy as it sounds. However, it will become easier with practice. This is but the first step on a long road to knowledge, you will learn more as time goes by. I can promise nothing, because you must learn at your own pace. A little guidence also - drink only in moderation, never become drunk, nor should you use strong drugs, except for medical purposes. They cloud your faculties, and impair your powers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you, your majesty, I shall do my best."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Then paula announced "Okay guys, who wants to go sight seeing? I'd like to go soon so there is still time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That wound up being myself and nalini, plus durathror and ra'anor. We left prospero talking with Imladril and Iskandor.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  To my eyes, Prospero's shadow is a curious mix of styles. The clothing reminds me of Europe in the mid eighteen hundreds, the architecture reminds me of the late seventeen hundreds, the technology dates from various eras. The richer people have indoor plumbing with hot and cold water on tap, flushing toilets, like the early nineteen hundreds, yet gunpowder has not been invented. The poorer people don't have plumbing, but can obtain their water from taps situated in many streets, and can take advantage of sophisticated public bathhouses like the Romans had. There is even a law on the statute books requiring that everyone bathe daily. It is an old one, but I presume some civic minded king had decided to clean up his city, probably the same one who had had the aqueducts built.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  The steam engine has been invented, but is still emerging from the experimental stage. Prospero is leading the push to develop practical uses for it, and had plans to get together with prince rupert later in the week to discuss the use of steam engines in his shadow. He has also studied our own history, so he is trying to avoid the 'dark satanic mills' of our industrial revolution. Sailing ships exist, but are not as sophisticated as those of Europe of the sixteenth century. Some kingdoms still use oar-powered galleys, but Aquilonia has a well-developed navy. Prospero is attempting to introduce steam power to the Aquilonian navy.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Aquilonia is one of the bigger empires of his shadow. It extends north to the ocean (known as the Great Sea), and south to the Central Sea. It is roughly the size of Spain, France and half of Germany, and is situated on the north east arc of the Central Sea. There are a number of empires and kingdoms situated around the Central Sea, which is probably a half as large again as the Mediterranean. However, unlike the Mediterranean, there are no deserts to the south, instead the southern countries are tropical or semi tropical, with lush vegetation. The Central Sea is open in the northwest and east to the Great Sea, and in the south to the Lesser Sea. A number of land masses extend outwards from the Central Sea, to the north they disappear into the cold Great Ocean, while in the south they extend all the way to the Great Southern Ice. No one knows whether there is land inside the ice shelf. There are more land masses to the east and west, but not all of them have been explored.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Aquilonia is also an ancient empire, with traditions extending back almost fifteen hundred years. In recent times it had been cursed with a series of incompetent or evil kings, and the empire has shrunk on account of depredations from the surrounding countries. Under Sorono and then Amrik, the shrinkage has stopped. The empire trades with many others around the central sea, and is quite wealthy. By the standards of this shadow, its army and navy are large, modern and well disciplined. Even Prospero admits that evil king Sorono ran a disciplined army and navy. The military are professionals, are well paid and well trained.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There are no slaves in Aquilonia, although some of its trading partners run slave economies. However, the economy still runs largely on human and animal power, although wind and water power are also used. With the advent of steam, that will undoubtedly change over the next fifty to one hundred years.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The official religion of Aquilonia is the worship of Mithras, the sun god. It is fairly tolerant and enlightened, unlike the religions of some of its trading partners. The culture is reasonably enlightened, many of the citizens are educated enough to be able to read and write. If anything, tolerance of differences gained a new lease of life following the fall of Sorono. If you have money, it is quite a pleasant place to live. However, it is not idyllic - there is no social security except for the military - soldiers and sailors retire with a pension, as do wounded ones, or their families if they die. Amrik has introduced a similar scheme for the public service, but for most people the reality is that if you can't work, your family must support you. Failing that, you beg, starve, or become a thief. Sounds like many places back home.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tarantia is the capital of Aquilonia. It is situated like Rome on seven hills on the northern and western bank of the Tarantella River, near the mouth. It is a port city. People claim the river is safe to drink, the city is situated far enough back from the sea so that the water is still fresh, and the river teams with fish. However, the city water comes from the mountains fifty miles to the east, conveyed from there on four huge aqueducts. The mountains themselves are extinct volcanoes, the tallest has permanent snow cover. There is a huge crater lake from which the city water is drawn, this lake is fed both by melting snows and underground springs. The aqueducts are engineering marvels standing many hundreds of meters above ground, high enough that the water can be conveyed to the palace cisterns on the hill. Three of the city's hills are also extinct volcanoes, and their craters are used as holding dams for the water from the aqueducts.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The castle is on a low hill overlooking the docks. It is the oldest building in the city, and once boasted a huge wall. The castle has been extended many times, and now has a number of different architecture styles. Most of the old wall has been reused for building material, and what is left of the wall now surrounds the castle garden. The old basalt and granite has been white washed, covered with stucco, or plastered and painted. Most of it is white, with roman style arches and colonnades, but other areas have small high arrow slits. Newer parts have been built with bricks or pink sandstone cut from some cliffs upstream. There are four square, whitewashed towers with green copper pyramidal roofs. Once they stood at the four corners of the castle walls, but now the castle extends beyond them, and they are accompanied by a round spire with a domed cupola of green copper. Most of the older part of the castle is roofed with gray slate, while most of the new part is roofed with red tile.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Around the hill are the larger houses belonging to some of the nobles. Every noble has a country estate somewhere outside Tarantia, but many have a mansion with expansive grounds situated in Tarantia. Others are along the north shore, overlooking the wide bay where many ships can anchor, while others are along the south and eastern banks of the river. Those on the further bank entail a ferry ride to reach the city, so they tend to belong to those nobles who do not frequent the city proper or the court.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There is also a small spring that bubbles up inside the castle walls, which could have been used in times of siege, but this is not sufficient to supply enough drinking water for the palace staff, let alone the fountains or water the extensive gardens that are there now.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Below the large houses of the nobility stretch streets of shops, smaller houses of the middle classes, and houses of some of the more famous artisans. This is the old city, which has its own wall almost three meters high. The old city extends around the hill, and down to the dock, where the thieves quarters are, mixed in with mean hovels and fortified warehouses, and out around the other six hills. Once the wall was meant to defend the city, but now buildings built up to and sometimes over the wall. The gates still stand, but they are always open. On the outside of the walls are the meaner dwellings of the poorer people, some large houses in secluded areas, and the general overflow of the city.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Around the better areas, the streets are wide and paved, there are squares with fountains, floral gardens and statues. Most of the buildings are white stone or white washed brick, many with red terracotta tile roofs. Some of the more expensive ones have green copper roofs, while older or poorer buildings have slate roofs. An army of street sweepers is employed to keep the streets reasonably clean. The fact that horses are the main transport means that there is tons of horse shit on the streets that has to be cleaned daily. The same king who introduced the bathing law addressed some of this by banning horses from many of the streets, and banning people from dropping litter. These bans are still in force.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  We walked through many of the main thoroughfares, stopping to admire the view, the architecture, the people, and the wares in the shops. Paula knew her way better than the rest of us, and did seem to know something about who the statues were. We stopped several times at pavement cafes for refreshments. The sun was heading down by the time we returned to the palace.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When we arrived in our apartment, we found the servants has laid out formal clothes for us. That meant I had to wear riding boots and a ceremonial sword, while nalini had a tiara laid out for her along with an evening gown.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I should explain that an Aquilonian gentleman wears trousers, but they stop a little below the knees, similar to the trousers worn by the cavaliers and the puritans, except theirs are skin tight while ours are baggy. Outside, and on formal occasions, a gentleman wears knee high riding boots, inside he wears sandals or goes barefoot. Knee high socks are only worn with riding boots, unlike our guests, who wear similar socks with their shoes, and wear the same shoes outdoors and indoors. In Aquilonia, what ever is worn for walking outside the house is never worn inside, and vice versa. So these formal riding boots had never been worn outside, and would never touch a horse.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ladies who ride horses usually wear similar trousers; nalini hardly ever wears a skirt here. Ladies who don't ride usually wear skirts and dresses that come just below the knee. Outdoors they will wear boots, but indoors they will wear court shoes or sandals.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What's the occasion?" we asked paula.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Um.. actually, I'm not supposed to tell you, but you're the guests of honor. Amrik is giving you a presentation for saving him and Prospero..." She saw our expressions and continued "Look, I'll tell you, but please don't tell them you know, it's supposed to be a surprise. Danny will be formally made an earl, and you'll be formally made whatever the female equivalent is. I don't know what the English is."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Probably just lady in English. Does that mean we're being given an estate? Titles usually come with an estate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We looked at one another. We had been talking that afternoon of purchasing a house somewhere in Tarantia, and spending more time here, especially since Paula would be spending more time here.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, that's great paula. I guess we have to prepare some thank you speach?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe, but they really want it to be a surprise."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, we'll just stammer and stutter in thanks."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right, last night's dinner was semi formal," Nalini remarked "and I wore a suitable dress. But you know I don't like wearing dresses at the best of times. Tonight is formal honors, and danny is supposed to wear military dress. I'm a warrior just as much as danny is, so I'm going to wear trousers and a sword as well. I'll keep the tiara though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula wasn't sure if she should wear military dress but that didn't stop Nalini. Our wardrobes were provided by the palace, presumably with Amrik and Prospero's approval, and there are masculine style military clothes in her wardrobe, in her colors. We couldn't see any reason why she shouldn't wear them. The tiara presented a bit of a problem, because it wouldn't sit with the jeweled combs Nalini uses to keep her hair tidy. Nalini's hair is quite long, falling about a hand span below her bra strap, and she either braids it or uses combs to keep it in place. Tucking her hair behind her ears is not an option she likes. In the end, she decided to braid it into a single braid and wear the tiara.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When Prospero arrived later we were all sitting in the living area, drinking and chatting. Paula and Liz were wearing formal gowns and strappy low heeled court shoes. One thing they find tedious about formal dinners is that they have no choice in the colors they wear, their formal clothes are in their house colors, and that is how it is. Paula was wearing red, black and yellow of Prospero's house colors. Liz was wearing red and green this time. The palace dressmakers and tailors were in the process of providing her with a wardrobe, so this time she didn't have to borrow clothes from Prospero's household. Liz had wanted to wear the aboriginal colors of red, black and yellow, but they were Prospero's house colors. Prospero had stated that it was unthinkable for anyone to wear house colors unless they were a liveried servant, or family, or betrothed as in Paula's case. Other combinations she'd liked were in use, and she didn't like my colors or Nalini's colors, or the combination of all four of ours (black, green, dark blue and pale blue). Eventually Liz had chosen red and green as one of the few available combinations.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert was wearing black polished riding boots, sky blue trousers with a gold stripe and a maroon jacket festooned with gold braid, one of the available color combinations. The servant hovering in the background serving was dressed in Prospero's livery, trousers striped with vertical stripes of red, black and yellow, and a matching striped tabard top. The vertical stripes denote a liveried servant in Aquilonia; no one else wears striped clothing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero greeted us, looked Nalini up and down, and then remarked mildly "Ladies are supposed to wear an evening gown. But you are a warrior, Amrik will have no problem with you wearing military clothes. Now, if you will excuse me, I must bathe and change rapidly." He was gone. Paula followed him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 None of us knew how the preliminary discussion went. Charles had returned earlier, but had not seen fit to discuss things with us. Instead he had retired to his chambers. Prince Rupert had declared that it wasn't his place to raise the issue with Charles, nor should he enter Charles' chambers uninvited.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "King Charles is a very private person." Rupert observed. "He does not discuss the affairs of state with others. He will ask advice of his advisors, but he never discusses what he might think, only what they might think."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It occurred to me that this was the ploy of someone who did not know what to do on a matter. If you have no opinion, ask your advisors, but never let on that you have no opinion, and they will think you a wise man. "Then it is likely he will want no advice for these negotiations. I wonder if this is going to work?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 So we waited, and chatted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Eventually Prospero returned, dressed formally. "You've kept us in suspense" Nalini commented "so why not tell us before anyone else is here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero sat down and took a large drink his servant offered. He sculled about half the glass before he sat back. "Ah, I needed that! Well, Prince Rupert, will you give me your word that what ever we may say within these four walls on this matter is private, and will not be conveyed to the king?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked thoughtful. "Will you give me your word that you will say nothing treasonous, or at least nothing that would cause me to commit treason by failing to tell my king?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled. "You have my word, Prince Rupert, that we will require nothing treasonous from you. It is just that we might touch upon how to maneuver the king to agree to some point. Perhaps in those circumstances, you could agree to leave the room?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert smiled in return. "I shall give you my word not to say anything, but should something arise of which I feel is my duty to tell the king, I will warn you that you should refrain from discussing that matter further in my presence."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero sighed. "Fine! Sometimes I feel that politics will make an old man of me! Life as a soldier was much simpler. Today was not a day to discuss solutions, today was not a day to discuss the issues, today was a day to raise issues we should be discussing, and problems we should be trying to solve. I believe that we have succeeded in obtaining agreement on the scope of the discussions, and general agreement of the direction of the talks, without prejudice to the outcome. There were some differences of opinion, and the discussion at times grew rather vigorous, but on the whole I would say we have definitely moved our efforts over at least one significant hurdle."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey Prospero, could you cut out the political speak, and talk plain English?" Nalini chided.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero laughed. "That was one of our hurdles. Durathror will be an integral part of our negotiations." He paused, gauging the looks on our faces. "My English is not good. Right now I am speaking Aquilonian, but you understand me because of the translation spell. Charles and Cromwell speak English, and read and write English. I can speak some English, and read and write moderately well, but for these negotiations I must speak Aquilonian. We progressed to a point where Charles and Cromwell agreed to sit in the same room, and raise issues without trying to find a solution. I wanted them written on a blackboard, but that caused problems. As you know, a translation spell cannot work with the written word. I had to have Durathror write in English on one blackboard, while one of my scribes wrote in Aquilonian on another blackboard. Perhaps one of you other native English speakers can fill in for Durathror from time to time, but he has expressed his interest in attending most sessions. He has a wealth of experience he can bring to bear on matters."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So how far did you actually get?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We now have four blackboards covered with issues, but they seem to have agreed that all the issues they have to discuss have been written down. The issues weren't to be discussed, simply raised, but that did not stop the two of them from blaming each other for things. The recriminations grew quite heated at times, once my lord Amrik had to threaten to beat both of them bloody - that's his words - if they did not sit down and behave like gentlemen. The issues range from the sublime to the ridiculous, from the earth shattering to the petty. But they are now on the blackboard, and we can discuss each one in as much detail as we need until a compromise is reached that is acceptable to both of them. Eventually we will reach agreement on all points, and then they can go home and implement the solutions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think that last statement may be a little idealistic, Prospero." I remarked. "They may need a lot of baby sitting to implement the solutions. How can you be sure they won't just renege on their promises once they get home?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That will be the last part of our discussions, about guarantees and safety precautions. Exactly what we will do has yet to be formulated, but I think we will need observers and advisors. Imladril has hinted at providing some assistance there. I am coming to realize that this could take many weeks to resolve, but at least Cromwell and Charles have agreed to discuss the issues and try to resolve them. For that I think we have to thank Danny, Nalini and Durathror for guiding Cromwell in interpreting scripture, and in exposing the gods who appeared before him as imposters."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh... just a minor point Prospero, they were Jesus and his apostles, you don't refer to them as gods."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, thank you, I will try to remember that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How many issues are there?" Nalini asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think there are forty seven, at one a day that is quite a long time. Some may take less of course. Oh, while I think of it, we will need some of you to act as scribes, because once my scribes have taken notes on the salient points of a discussion, we will have to write that up in English to give back to Charles and Cromwell."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  "That may not be as easy as it sounds," I pointed out another hurdle. "because their English is quite different from ours. There is over three hundred years of changes, some words have dropped out of use, others have changed meaning, and a whole host of new ones have cropped up. We might have to go over it in several iterations, with Cromwell and Charles correcting each draft."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh dear, I hadn't thought of that." Prospero drank the last of his wine. "I believe we should pay our respects on king Charles, and invite him to join us in the ante room for some polite conversation before dinner. We have perhaps half an hour before we should go to the dining hall."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tobias, James and Robert were already sitting in the ante room talking over a glass of wine. All three were dressed similarly to Rupert. Liz remarked on that, Prospero replied "King Charles has expressed the desire that all of you be dressed the same. We explained the use of colors by our noble houses to him, and he decided you should all wear England's royal colors on formal occasions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tobias remarked "I would like an explanation as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very well. In Aquilonia, each noble family is referred to as a noble house. Traditionally each noble house has three colors which combined will uniquely identify that house. I believe it stems from the distant feudal past, where nobles fought one another, and their knights and soldiers wore identifying colors. We only do this now for formal occasions. Last night, you all wore two colors, which is acceptable for visitors. Unfortunately, a number of the richer merchants and manufacturers have established their own combinations of two colors, these combinations are now no longer available for visitors. Three needs approval from the king, which he has granted to King Charles for his royal colors. You may not be aware, but the colors red, blue and white are King Amrik's own colors. You wear them reversed, red trousers and a blue jacket would declare you an officer in King Amrik's army."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tobias nodded. "This reminds me of what the bard wrote, where the houses of Montague and Capulet have their own colors. We are all happy to wear England's colors, 'twill bite the thumb at the puritans." He grinned.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At this point, the door to King Charles chambers opened, and Charles entered the room. He was dressed similarly to his cavaliers, except that he wore white silk stockings and high heeled shoes. He carried a walking stick of dark wood, with a silver knob. There were blue ribbons in his hair, and his moustache appeared to have been waxed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert and the three nobles stood when he entered the room, the rest of us remained seated. They bowed, we nodded in greeting. Prospero announced "Your Highness, we have reserved the best seat for yourself. Please be seated."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The king sat, then his supporters sat. He smiled a quirky smile at Prospero. "It is obvious to me that customs are different between our two kingdoms. We are your guests, it behooves us abide by your customs." He stopped to talk briefly with a servant, before accepting a glass of fortified wine, similar to sherry. "This particular drop is rather good. Better even than that which Spain manufactures. You may be aware that we do not trade with Spain. We would appreciate if we could take some of this with us when we return to England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled "Of course King Charles. We are working to ensure that you return in honor to England, and sit on its throne once more."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And do not think we are unappreciative of your efforts, lord Prospero." Charles replied smoothly. "We would prefer to clap Cromwell and his cronies in irons, and return victoriously, but we realize that would require a sizeable army, and many people would die in the process. A restoration with honor is by far the best course, though it may take a while to wear Cromwell down. We are surprised you managed to persuade Cromwell to agree to discuss all the issues we raised, he is quite stiff necked."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He has had a few shocks in recent days, not the least of which were disturbing dreams wherein his god revealed that his previous actions were in service of the devil. Danny has caused him further soul searching by quoting scripture at him and explaining to him some of the errors in his interpretation of scripture."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They talked for a time about some of the issues raised, more important ones having to do with the curbing of the king's power by parliament. The king would need parliamentary approval for any laws he should suggest. The king would also have a separate council of advisors not drawn from parliament, and would have the power of veto over anything parliament might try to legislate. Charles was not exactly happy with the idea, but since he could not win a civil war and impose his own ideas, he had to fall back to the best compromise. Any restoration was better than none, though I had the impression that he might renege on certain guarantees once he had been reinstated as England's monarch.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero finally shut off the discussion with the words "However your majesty, these issues will be discussed in full another day. We will have experts give presentations on the subject so that all of us are able to discuss it from a position of knowledge. May I suggest we leave further discussion until then?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 King Charles nodded. "Yes, let us not spoil our dinner with such discussions. We are aware of how the political process works; it is often a slow process. You strike us as a wily politician, beneath your mild manner there is a steely determination. We have confidence that you will steer these negotiations to an acceptable and honorable conclusion."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero waved deprecatingly. "You are too kind, your majesty. But I am endeavoring to navigate these negotiations through rocky waters and into a safe harbor. We will not be spending all out days at the negotiating table, we are planning entertainments and other diversions. Also, I am not sure if you are aware, but in four days time we celebrate the marriage of King Amrik to the lady Enyil."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At this point a servant entered, and waited discretely to be noticed. Prospero looked up. "Ah, I believe it is time for us to enter the dining hall."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The servant nodded. "My Lord, the king sends word that the other guests are assembled. He bids you join him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good, tell him we are on our way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We rose, collected our things, and set off. Prospero explained to Nalini and me "I should have told you earlier, but the king wanted this to be a surprise. You two are the guests of honor. You will sit on his table tonight."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What are we being honored for?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, you know how he decreed that you and Nalini would be given citizenship and noble rank? You have not been back since, so he has been unable to present you with the deeds to your estate, nor has it been publicly announced. So tonight is the night."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When we reached the dining hall, the others were lead to sit at the same table where Cromwell and his companions were already seated. There were several other people already seated there at the other end of the table, one of whom I recognized as Prospero's mother. She was seated by the empty head of the table. Their table was adjacent to the king's own table. We however, were lead to sit with Amrik and Enyil, who tonight also had Imladril, Iskandor, Durathror, Ra'anor and Atlendor with them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The king welcomed us, then stood to make a short speech. "Tonight, we belatedly honor two people to whom both Prospero and I owe our lives, not once, but several times over. It is a long tale, I will not tell it in detail tonight. A year ago, as many of you know, our land was suffering depredations from the servants of the serpent god. Prospero and I set out with a crack body of soldiers to investigate and put a stop to this. Unfortunately for us, the rulers of the serpent spawn were two evil sorcerers. Our company was captured, and the other soldiers were sacrificed one by one to the serpent god, while we languished in a foul dungeon. Danny's sister the Lady Paula, who is now Lord Prospero's betrothed, was also seized, and cast into the dungeon with Prospero and myself. Danny and Nalini rescued us, and with their aid we destroyed the serpent spawn who pursued us, and made our way safely to Tarantia. We knew we were not safe here until we had destroyed all the serpent spawn in their lair. Prince Durathror, Prince Iskandor and Lord Atlendor offered to aid us, and we returned to the lair of the serpent god to destroy the entire nest of vipers. While we fought with them, the two sorcerers summoned their serpent god whom I will not name. That evil god would have laid waste to all of Aquilonia, except that Danny and Nalini called on their god who helped them to banish the serpent god. But for them we would not be here tonight and likely many of you would not be here either. Once the demon was banished, we were able to destroy the sorcerers, and wipe their nest of vipers from the face of the earth."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned to us and continued "Please stand up Danny and Nalini. As a token for your service, I said I would give you an earldom as your fief, but since then you have been in your home kingdom, and I have been unable to present you with your titles. I now declare you officially the Earl and Earlrina..." there is an official title for the Earl's wife just as a duke has a duchess. I have rendered this 'earlrina' for want of a better term in English. "..of the fief of Bendora. You will need to discuss with the master herald what colors you will use for this estate, because I have created it from land holdings the crown has following the civil war. Please come over here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned to four pages behind him who were carrying things on cushions. "Firstly, here is a copy of your title deeds." He presented each of us with a scroll tied with red ribbon. We unrolled it to reveal Aquilonian writing which neither of us could read, and a large seal at the bottom right hand corner. The page moved around beside us and held out the cushion to receive the scrolls again. "Now here is your chain of office, one for each of you." He presented us each with a thick gold chain from which hung a heavy gold medallion. Incised into the metal was an eagle and a tiger. We slipped the chains over our neck. "This box contains the seal of Bendora, and the signet ring." He opened it to show us a solid ivory seal, and a gold signet ring. He then closed the box and handed it back to the page. Another page held a cushion with two small boxes on it. "These are your military pips, one set for each of you. Nalini, you must have known I had a set for you. Now, let me pin them to your collar." The pips were for the rank of junior general, a stooping hawk in gold. Senior generals have a gold sun, while Prospero as second in command of the entire kingdom has two gold suns, and Amrik has a gold crown. The emblem has a pin on the back that is pressed through the collar and into a butten designed to receive it, meaning it can easily be moved from jacket to jacket. "Now that you have estates here, I hope you will spend more time with us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He stepped forward, kissed Nalini on both cheeks, then did the same for me. He was beaming. "Thanks guys." he said in heavy English. Then he raised his voice again. "My lords and ladies, I present to you the earl and earlrina of Bendora."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was general applause around the room. King Charles and the others wore thoughtful expressions. The story of fighting sorcerers and banishing gods had obviously set them thinking.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you Amrik. Thank you very much. You should have warned us though, we could have prepared a speach." We were both grinning.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I wanted it to be a surprise." he replied. "Without notes, you will have to keep it short, lad. The rest of us are starving!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 So I said a few words in reply. Nothing great, just some sincere words. "Thank you your majesty, this is a great honor for us. We just did what we had to as part of the fight against injustice and evil in the world. We couldn't have done that without you and the brave soldiers of Aquilonia. You are playing your part in banishing evil and promoting justice in Aquilonia, we are proud to be a small part of that. Aquilonia is a wonderful country, we will definitely be spending more time here. Once again, thank you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "I'd just like to add that you are a very noble person, your majesty. We admire what you are doing here to bring good and equitable government to Aquilonia. You set an example to the other kingdoms that will shine for thousands of years. Thank you for honoring us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik looked almost embarrassed at this. He grunted, put one hand on her shoulder, then the other on mine. "I can't do it without people like you." Then he took a deep breath, smiled. "Right, I'm starving! Let's have some food!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Waiters began bringing the food to the table. Over on the next table, Prospero was speaking animatedly. My intuition told me he was elaborating on Amrik's tale. Amrik saw my gaze, and commented "I distrust those puritans. Any man who hates pleasure cannot be human; and their king is only half a man, he wears high heels and ribbons like a woman. What sort of place is England?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Different cultures, different customs. But they are struggling with the same sorts of problems you did. They have a king who believes he is god's own representative, they have Cromwell who believes the same. They were moving toward parliamentary government, but instead they both adopted extreme positions, and now they have a civil war."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik grunted, and spoke around a mouthful of food. "Well, 'tis Prospero's problem now. I wash my hands of them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril commented "Charles and Oliver dislike each other intensely. But your assessment is correct, they both believe they are god's own representative, neither believes they should compromise. If anything, Charles is a little more flexible, primarily because he has lost his throne and seeks to win it back. His religious position is less extreme, but he has less compassion than Oliver. Charles does not care about the common people, Oliver does, but Oliver's compassion is marred by his religious views. He hates Jews, Catholics, witches and the Irish with a passion. But following the unmasking of his guides, he is in turmoil. We must work on him each night, and guide him into extending his compassion. Charles is more likely to favor the nobility, Oliver has more potential to be a good leader because he is aware of Charles's failings."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But how can you work with someone who sees things in terms of black and white, and will not compromise?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 For a moment, Imladril looked like an old mind in a young body. Although she looks about sixteen, her eyes looked far older. "If they will not bend, then they must be broken, like horses."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I commented "I think we need to force him to think about Nicodemus's question: 'Who is my neighbor'."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Seeing some puzzled looks, I added "Jesus taught 'Love your neighbor as yourself.'. Nicodemus asked him 'Lord, who is my neighbor?'. At the moment, Cromwell's answer is 'Puritans and most Anglicans, but no others.'. If we could get him to extend that to the entire human race, then his zeal would do much good."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "But he's a fanatic though. He could do much evil in the name of good."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think that the king and Cromwell should both be part of the government, that way they'll tend to act to keep each other honest." I commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Neither having more power than the other?" Enyil asked. "It might work, but we need to go beyond their dislike of one another."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "So how did today's session go?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik laughed. "Neither trusts the other. Charles does not want a parliament, Cromwell does not want a king. I had to threaten to bash their heads together before they would talk. They will end up with a government such as we are setting up, though they may not know that now." He looked to Enyil. "We have investigated various forms of government, we have decided that a parliamentary government where the king has the same powers as parliament seems to work the best. It is loose enough that good people can rise in parliament, and the people's concerns can be heard, yet there is the continuity of the kingship, and the ability to make long term plans."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The king is still a weak link if he becomes self interested." Enyil added. "I would like to see a mechanism for the king to be removed, and another one installed, perhaps something like our own society" she indicated the other Viharani at the table "where the king or queen is elected, then stays in office until they die, decide to retire, or are removed by the council because they are unfit."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But we do not elect kings!" Amrik countered. "The nobles and the people would not stand for it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror leaned forward. "Consider, lord Amrik, under the government you are setting up, the old king is reborn and becomes king. How would you deal with that? How would you remove him without a civil war?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He could not be the despot that he was. He could not torture or kill without being found guilty of a crime. Once he is found guilty of a crime, he can no longer remain king." Amrik replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now what constitutes a crime?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Anything that requires he be sentenced to prison: murder, torture, treason and numerous other crimes. Once he is convicted, the parliament can then unilaterally require him to abdicate. But at present, the throne would pass to whomever is next in line. I do not like the idea of electing kings, I am sorry."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Don't be sorry." Imladril replied. "The solution has to be what works for your people. Election tends to ensure that popular people get the job, and only those who want the job put themselves up for election. Of course, the risk is that those who want the job often have a hidden agenda."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik laughed again. "I was going to reply that a king is trained from birth to be a king, but of course I never was. I learned much in the army."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What sort of issues did they raise?" Nalini asked again.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh," Enyil replied, "we have big issues like can the king govern without parliament, can parliament govern without a king, we have smaller issues like money to run the king's estates and household, who can sit in parliament, and we have petty issues like the title of the parliamentary leader. There are many petty issues."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "But they are likely to be bigger sticking points than most of the larger issues."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik commented "One issue they did not raise, but one I will raise with them tomorrow, is the issue of bathing. Some of those puritans stink, they have not bathed since they arrived! Tomorrow morning, when they arrive for breakfast, those who have not bathed will be arrested and taken before a magistrate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor commented "You might find it best to caution them this time, but come down hard if they persist."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik nodded. "I plan to scare them, threaten them with public scrubbing with the sort of brushes farmers use to prepare their pigs and cattle for market. But I will give them a chance to escape that fate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We changed topics after this, and discussed a wide range of topics during the meal. Amrik was learning energy exercises and starting on the path to sorcery. Imladril and Durathror wanted to know how well he was progressing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik shrugged. "I train every morning. Enyil and I do things in dreaming, and often one of you is there as well. You should know how well I am doing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, but this is waking, what you do in dreaming may not be brought into waking."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, I can perform a few simple spells. Invisibility interests me, but I realize that this one is hard."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror nodded. "Sorcery can be divided into a number of areas, usually of increasing difficulty. Spells of illusion are the easiest category, then come shadow shifting, spells that influence the physical world, and then shapeshifting and similar spells that affect the substance. Invisibility is a spell of illusion. Most invisibility illusions will not really make you invisible, but will render you such that people do not notice you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Illusion to change my appearance interests me much, then could I slip out and go about like a normal citizen from time to time. Kingship irks me greatly. But I do not want to go into a tavern and find I cannot be served because no one notices me!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror chuckled. "Well lord Amrik, if you persevere, then one day you will be able to shape shift, and actually don any appearance you like. That is one of the harder disciplines, and takes time to master."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And one day I will put my son on the throne, and go travelling! By then I hope to be good enough to travel through shadow, and I will visit my friends."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Enyil replied "My love, you will be able to walk through shadows long before any son of ours comes of age."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik suddenly smiled. "Hah! Then shall I leave Prospero as regent! He has his fun now, gallivanting around with Paula, and leaving me to run the kingdom, so shall I do the same to him once I can shadow shift."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril smiled at him. "I think you boys will go travelling together one day. If you set the government up properly, you won't need a king to keep things running."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now that is the goal of my kingship - to be able to step down later, and enjoy my life. But I will not hear of the next king being elected, my son shall sit upon my throne."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The conversation then turned to interesting shadows, past events, and such like. Durathror made the mistake of sounding a little boastful about his prowess with a sword, leading to Amrik challenging him to a training session on the morrow. "It's not that I doubt your prowess, Prince Durathror, but that I am hard pressed to find anyone who is a worthy opponent for me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror smiled serenely, and twirled his moustache. "Well your majesty, I hope you will not be disappointed. I will endeavor to give you your money's worth." His eyes were shining, as if he was relishing the prospect of some sword play.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Eventually came the dancing, for which I partnered Nalini on the floor. King Charles was dancing with Prospero's mother, a regal looking woman in her early forties. During a lull in the music, we took time to talk with Prospero and Paula. Prospero commented "My mother is a widow, it suits her to partner a visiting king. He can be quite charming when he is being social. I think they are enjoying themselves. The puritans are not. Four of them smell abominably, and they all disapprove of dancing and music. Cromwell, Matthew, Thomas and Tobias had a heated discussion about whether you were witches to fight sorcerers and banish the serpent god. All the puritans plus Robert are refusing to speak with Liz because she told people she is catholic. Oh, and Cromwell wants to visit one of our places of worship tomorrow. Apart from that, we are all having an enjoyable time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "When the dancing takes a break, why don't you take Paula and go sit with the king, while we have a chat with the puritans?" I commented. Prospero nodded. The music started, and he and Paula commenced dancing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini turned to me "Let's sit these ones out." She led the way toward the puritans. Everyone else was up dancing, even the three cavaliers seemed to have found partners.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell was talking with Matthew, and looked up with a sour expression when we approached. "Hi Cromwell, Matthew, are you enjoying yourselves?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Dancing leads to sin!" Matthew stressed. "We are only here because it is polite."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell looked directly at me. "Young man, are you a witch?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do I look like one? Do I act like one? Why would you think I would be one?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You two have powers normal people do not. This tale of fighting sorcerers and banishing demons, how else but if you were a witch?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I laughed. "Lord Cromwell, I fear you do not know your scripture well enough. Just so the Pharisees accused Jesus of casting out demons by the power of Satan. I give you his reply, do you remember it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded. "Aye, I know it. 'If I cast out demons in the name of Lucifer, then his kingdom is divided, and cannot stand. I tell you I cast out demons in the name of my father in heaven'. Under other circumstances I might accuse you of blasphemy, except duke Prospero and lady Paula assure me it happened as the king described; that a demon in the form of a huge serpent did indeed appear, and that you and the lady Nalini banished it." He looked me in the eye for several seconds while I looked back at him. "Sir, you are a difficult man, you force me to question me dearly held beliefs, yet do I believe that at heart you are a good man."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I could say the same about you. But I would add that my purpose in part is to show you that your interpretation of the scripture is at times flawed, and to teach you how it should be interpreted. I do not fault you for your zeal, merely some of your interpretations."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He harrumphed at this, but before he could make answer, Nalini asked "What is this we have heard about you people refusing to speak to Liz because she is catholic?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Catholics are idol worshippers, they would lead us astray with their interpretation of scripture!" Matthew exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell added "Their theology is flawed, their pope is a servant of Satan, sent to lead us from the straight and narrow path onto the road to hell, through idolatry and blasphemy."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Really now!" Nalini exclaimed. "Are you that evil that you must classify Catholics as idolaters and demon worshippers?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, they worship the saints in direct contradiction to our holy scripture\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0" Matthew started.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Henry, one of the puritans of noble birth seated across the table, interjected loudly "The only good catholic is a dead catholic!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Really now? And is that what you are trying to do with your witch trials? Round up the Catholics and put them to death? Will your inquisitors go through every town and village, rooting out Catholics and killing them?" I stood up.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell made some calming remark "No, only those who work treason or worship the devil."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And why not?" Henry asked back. "They all worship the devil! We will root out all of them, and purify England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 My voice was cold. Icy fingers were running up and down my spine. A lot of things my grandfather had said about the nazis in Poland came back to me. "Well, will you implement the final solution? Rid England of all Catholics? Send your inquisitors through every town and village, separate them out from true Christians, take them out into the fields, there to make them dig a large pit, and then line them up on the edge and shoot them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, it's a good idea! More efficient than our witch trials!" Henry exclaimed. "By god, we will rid England of Catholics!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell said "No Henry! That is not the way." But it was too late.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So Henry, why not include witches, Jews, the Irish, and anyone else you don't like in that list, and purge the land of all of them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And why not? England would be a better place without them. They all intrigue with our enemies."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I leaped onto the table, stooped and grasped him by the scruff of his neck, lifting him bodily from his chair. I shook him as a terrier shakes a rat. At this point the music stopped. Aware that all eyes were upon me, I spoke slowly and deliberately. "You piece of shit! You festering sore! You're not the first criminal to try his hand at genocide, and you won't be the last." My voice was icy cold. "My grandfather lost his entire family thanks to filth like you! When he was my age, shit like you massacred six million people in the name of purity, and another thirty million died during the war to stop them." I put my face close to his. He was red faced, his eyes wide with fear. He smelled of unwashed body, and shit. In his fear he had soiled himself. "You disgust me!" He was becoming rather heavy; I flung him back into his chair, where he fell over backwards. I rounded on the other puritans. "I accuse all of you of genocide against Catholics, Jews, and others in your witch persecutions. I intend to stop you. Is that clear?" I leaped down beside Henry, hauled him to his feet. He was almost gibbering with fear, and the front of his trousers was wet with urine. "Get out of my sight! Now!" He turned and ran from the hall.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maybe I over-reacted a little. Amrik, Prospero and others were making their way over to us. I took a deep breath, calmed myself, and then smiled ruefully at the others. "Sorry, but I have a thing against people who espouse mass murder as the solution to their problems."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini explained quickly to Amrik and Prospero what Henry had said. Amrik looked grim. "We deposed and killed Sorono for less than that." He looked at the puritans one by one. "Which of you agree with Henry? Speak up!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell stated loudly "We do not advocate murder of anyone. Only those who commit crimes meriting death, and they should be executed by the official executioner."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Boldly spoken" Prospero replied with a sarcastic lilt, "but the massacre of the king's troops at the battle where we rescued prince Rupert gives the lie to that. You gave the orders for that massacre Cromwell."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I did not! Those orders were given in my name by lord Henry."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Are you telling the truth, or merely blaming a convenient scapegoat?" I asked him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am telling the truth sir! And I apologize for lord Henry's statements."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, your conscience will answer before god."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik stated flatly "I will ask again. Which of you support Henry? I want an answer from each of you, and I want it now." He looked at each of the puritans in turn, and each quailed before his gaze, shaking their heads.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik looked at Cromwell. "We executed old king Sorono for those sorts of crimes. Your witch trials are no different. You are the ruler, lord Cromwell, you are responsible for any crimes your underlings commit in your name. If I were king of England, I would have you and your followers tried for mass murder. I suggest you think on that when next you negotiate with king Charles." He turned around, waving his hands in the air. "All right, music! Let there be dancing!" He lead Enyil back to the dance floor.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini took my arm and lead me back onto the dance floor, even though we have trouble with some of the dances. I was feeling just a little bit embarrassed about my outburst. Nalini kissed me. "Hey, don't be silly. I'm proud you stood up to him like that. The only reason Hitler ever got as far as he did was people didn't stand up to him early enough. Someone should have done that to them when they first proposed their witch trials."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hmm, but I still believe that violence is the last resort of the incompetent. He said stupid and criminal things, but I'm the one who threatened physical violance."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, but sometimes there is no other alternative that's as effective."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz and Rupert came up to us while we danced. "Hey, I'm glad you did that to Henry, he's a piece of shit."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini interrupted "Hey, let's swap!" I let her go, she grabbed Rupert.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked at them, then grabbed me. "Okay, let's dance."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why do you reckon he's a piece of shit? Did he tell you the only good catholic is a dead one?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yep. How'd you know?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He told me the same, and I lost my temper. You should have told me when he said it, I would have straightened him out then and there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thanks Danny. I'm just glad you sorted him out anyway. Hey, I didn't realize you were that strong."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Neither did I until I lifted him. He was pretty heavy though, I couldn't hold him for long."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz was grinning at me. "Hey, it looked impressive!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No problem. Hey, do you know the steps to this one?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sort of, Rupert was showing me these steps. C'mon, I'll show you." She began swirling me across the floor. When next I looked around, all the puritans had left.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 During the remainder of the evening we swapped partners several times. I managed to dance with Paula, Enyil, Ra'anor, Imladril and Liz as well as Nalini.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 During one of the breaks in the music, we had a little round table discussion about the negotiations that Prospero had planned for the next few weeks. Prospero was worried "This is going to be perhaps the most difficult negotiations I have ever chaired. I am not sure how we guide them to the results we want."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero, you're the facilitator." I commented. "As such, you should not be telling them what the outcome of the negotiations are. Your task is to keep them focussed on the issue they are discussing. Side issues you write on the blackboard and discuss later. You have to be ruthless about that. As a general rule, you shouldn't worry about what the outcome of a discussion is, as long as there is an outcome. But I'd have certain items as non negotiable, like dismantling the persecutions. Whether you tell them that before hand I don't know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero shook his head. "Danny, you're talking management. I've read the books you have, but I don't agree that management is completely applicable to political negotiations. We want to direct them to particular outcomes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do you really? Don't you have a set of outcomes that are acceptable?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril commented "I am inclined to agree with Prospero, that there are certain outcomes you want to achieve here. Religious persecution has to be removed, as does the despotic rule of the king, and Cromwell's domination of parliament."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But the whole point is you can't just start by telling them that." I put in. "That's why Prospero's job is so hard, he has to appear to be impartial, he has to tell them he doesn't care about the outcome so they feel free to discuss the outcome. Then he has to subtly direct their negotiations in the direction he wants."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I thought that was what I started with." Prospero complained. "I want to direct them to the right outcomes, you started by saying I shouldn't. I'm glad we agree now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini responded "But part of the problem is that both of them are rulers, they don't care about the ordinary people. I think you need someone else there to represent the ordinary people, and make sure that their interests are protected."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril added "Nalini is right, negotiations have to take place between all the interested parties, otherwise those left out have their interests forgotten. We need to include someone to look out for the interests of the ordinary people. Maybe we can all take turns?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero observed "They may not accept third parties, but it might work. As facilitator, I can't be facilitating and thinking of issues at the same time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror commented "I think you need to decide how many people the king has in his team, and restrict Cromwell to the same number. Then we can supply a similar number in a team that represents the interests of the ordinary people. And I think that Danny and Nalini should play an important part in that team, they have the best exposure to a culture that tries to protect the interests of everyone."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril added "I think we Viharani should also play a part in that team. But we don't want to have the negotiations occupying our waking hours for the next three weeks or so."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero shook his head. "That isn't my intention either, I have a life to live as well! I was thinking of afternoon or morning sessions only, and possibly only every second day. We have a session scheduled for tomorrow afternoon, after that I will be busy until after the wedding."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You do realize that these negotiations could last many weeks?" Iskandor asked. "I doubt if any of us is willing to stay that long."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I plan on telling our participants that they cannot go home until they have resolved every point, even if that means staying years. I think that should be sufficient incentive for them to resolve their differences. But I would like all of you to think how we can ensure that the king and Cromwell stick with their agreements. I do not want suggestions now, but over the next few weeks. Once we send them back are we going to baby sit them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril replied "I am happy for us to take a similar role to that which we play here. We could supply a small team of observers who will watch what happens and try to guide outcomes. But their culture increases the risk for us, because they kill sorcerers." She nodded at Iskandor, who had presumably made a telepathic comment to her. "Yes, we will call for volunteers from among our people. Those volunteers should be at least observers to the negotiations, so they have a background understanding of what the antagonists are like. Prospero, you and Paula and Danny and Nalini should also pay them visits from time to time. Perhaps you should establish an embassy, or at least a diplomatic mission? If we are there then you don't need someone who can shadowshift."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Iskandor added "Your two cultures are at a similar stage, and both are undergoing a transition from kings to parliamentary governments. Even if you do not trade with one another, a diplomatic exchange between England and Aquilonia could benefit both countries."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "A diplomatic mission might be a good idea, I will talk that over with Amrik. We always have more up and coming nobles and bureaucrats than we can find positions for. But I do not agree that our cultures are similar. We have religious tolerance here, we don't burn sorcerers, I believe we are much more enlightened than they are."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I looked at Nalini. "Does this mean we should spend time there as observers?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled, shrugged. "Why not? Saving the world makes a nice change from an office job. We don't really need to work these days, those gems we collected are worth a fortune." We had collected a saddlebag full of precious stones once while out riding through shadow with Amrik and Enyil, and had returned several times to collect more. We had shared up what we had collected equally with Paula, and now the three of us were independently wealthy. We still worked, but that was partly a cover, and partly because the business had clients who wanted continuing services. That side was handled by other employees, so aside from family and friends, there was nothing pressing keeping us in either my home shadow or Nalini's.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I were moving away from client oriented work, and into more artistic endeavors. I have started writing these chronicles, as well as taken up painting again, and Nalini and I spend some time writing programs for general sale. Since we no longer need the work, we can concentrate on what we want. I commented in return "Philanthropy is supposed to be a good occupation for the independently wealthy. I guess that includes meddling in other countries' affairs?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course! At least now we are in a position to make a difference. I think I would be happy to spend a couple of months in England. Who knows, maybe Liz will want to spend time there with prince Rupert?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It won't have decent plumbing though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But you can get used to it for a while. That makes you appreciate the comforts of civilization all the more."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero joined in our conversation. "We would outfit our embassy building with the comforts we expect here. I think we might import a lot of food stuff as well, their standards of hygiene are abysmal. You two could spend time there as observers, but you could also spend your time here as observers. We still need help in getting our parliamentary democracy off and running."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We have to make a trip out to our estates after the wedding, and we might spend a week or so there. Would you want to visit with us Prospero?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would, although I am sort of tied up with the negotiations. Unless you wanted a dozen or more visitors?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm not sure of the estate, how many guests we can accommodate. Maybe our friends should visit first, and then you can bring the others later? Paula would probably appreciate if you take time out from the negotiations for a quiet holiday."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, I'm sure they can do without my company for a few days. Very well, say a week after the wedding, we will all go to your estates for a visit. I am sure you will both love your estate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We're sure we will too. I think that the king and Cromwell and their minions might also enjoy some time away from the city. Whether we want them there is another question, but we probably should, in the interests of furthering their negotiations."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                   ###}}