{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Cambria-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi284\ri-597\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32\b1\i0 Chapter}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  6}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next morning the puritans ignored me at breakfast. They sat at their own table on the far side of the room, and did not acknowledge my wave to them. "I may have to do something about this." I commented to Nalini. "This may spoil things for Prospero's negotiations."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not yet, save it." she responded. "I look at this as part of a softening up process. You know the classic model for interrogations. You are alternately hard and soft with them, and eventually they'll break and tell you what you know. We want to soften them up to the point where they're reasonable."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, I was thinking of being friendly to Cromwell before they all get arrested for public uncleanliness."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Let's eat first. Don't tackle unpleasant jobs on an empty stomach."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I chuckled "I'd have said that sick making jobs should be tackled on an empty stomach! Less mess that way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She laughed with me. "Didn't you tell me a joke about that? Someone apologizes they've a weak stomach, the other person says something like 'I'd say you have quite a strong stomach, that must be at least five feet.' Great topic for breakfast huh?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We chose a selection of fruits and pastries plus some cheese. Fruit juice was available, freshly squeezed on order. This was a recent addition suggested by Prospero; last time we had visited, breakfast drinks had been limited to wine, water or beer. That was still available for those who preferred a more traditional breakfast. We ordered fruit juice and a pot of coffee, an expensive luxury here. Prospero was currently making a fortune importing coffee beans from our shadow.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We selected a table close to the garden again, and started eating. Paula and Prospero joined us a little later. "Prospero, you should consider trying to grow coffee here. That way it would be available to the general population."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He grinned. "I am investigating it Danny. Demand for coffee is escalating, I am finding it difficult to keep up with it. But right now prices are high, and so are profits."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So you will take advantage of your monopoly to maximize your return?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "For a time. At present all the coffee beans are roasted, so no one can compete. Once we start growing coffee plants, everyone will be out to steal them, grow their own, and undercut me. I am not a merchant at heart, otherwise I would preserve my monopoly and never grow coffee plants. I need to find suitable land first. It is possible that part of your estate might be suitable, would you want to join in a coffee empire?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "We were talking earlier about making the change from office jobs. That sounds great Prospero."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Don't just think growing coffee. We have to go horizontal integration, and build a processing plant that can produce vacuum packed coffee beans. That way it will take your competitors years to catch up."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "I'm not sure about the climate here, but you may find that other countries are more suited to coffee crops."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We don't yet know much about growing coffee. We know it needs cooler mountainous regions with suitable rainfall, but not so cold that there is snow. I've been meaning to look that up when I get back to your shadow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini responded "I think you'll find the general information will be widely available, but the specifics you'll have to dig for, because it isn't a hobby plant. I think I brought my encyclopedia with me, we can see what that says later."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Mind you, a lot of the text might not be applicable here, you have different plants and insects, the soils could be different. You know, different pests, different weeds, you might have to do some investigative farming."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was nodding. "You have a certain way with words Danny, I don't think anyone else would use that term! I'm easy though, at present I will continue importing roasted beans, but I will investigate growing coffee plants, and building a processing plant."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula commented "I'll say one thing, life with you guys is never dull. None of us is stuck in a rut. But if anyone had tried to tell me what I'd be doing when I applied for a job, I'd have thought they were mad."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Looking across at the sullen puritans, I remarked to Prospero "Do you think last night's little episode with Henry had crueled your chances of getting the puritans to negotiate? Should I apologize for dropping him on the floor?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini answered first. "No Danny, I detest bigoted people like Henry, he received what he deserved. It's not as if you hit him. Freedom of speech does not include the right to say racist or criminal comments. And you know it's not so much his rights as his obligations." I nodded. We'd had many discussions about citizen rights versus citizen obligations; both of us came down firmly on the side of obligations.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "It's within your rights to challenge him to a duel for his comments, especially since Liz is regarded as being under your protection; if he doesn't like being dropped on the floor, he can challenge you. If these negotiations fail because of the puritans, we will just take steps to circumvent them, and restore king Charles without their assistance. We'll manage something, one way or the other."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I felt better about that. "So should we send them back in chains as the king's prisoners?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero laughed sardonically. "They may not know it yet, but that could well be how we do send them back. With the king restored, they are probably guilty of treason and insurrection."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz and Rupert arrived together, and joined our table. Rupert had a plate piled high with several croissants, while Liz a plate of scrambled eggs and some slices of meat. The meat was smoked to dryness, but had not been cooked. She gave one slice to Rupert who picked it up in his fingers, thanked her and remarked "I must have overlooked this. We have this sort of meats back home.". He chewed thoughtfully before adding "The smoke is perhaps stronger than our german varieties, the meat is not pork, but it is rather tasty."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula rolled her eyes in mock dismay. "Oh no, not another gourmet! You and Prospero make a good pair!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert shook his head. "Oh no lady Paula, I am but comparing this with the meats we smoke back home."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz took a croissant from his plate, replaced it with several slices of meat. "I've got more than I need, it's a bit salty for me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We sat and talked over our food for a while. Then Cromwell walked over to the food table, so I contrived to walk there behind him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good morning lord Cromwell!" I remarked cheerfully. "And how are you this morning?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked at me for a moment, as if trying to divine my inner thoughts. I looked back, smiling and thinking thoughts of goodwill, peace and harmony. Finally he spoke politely. "Good morning lord Danny. I trust you and your good lady are well? I would be happier to be back on my estates, living the life of a simple country squire, but god has decided otherwise. I often think that the king is one of my trials, now I think you might be another."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He didn't seem to bear a grudge about last night, but then he was both a committed Christian and a wily politician. I smiled at him "Ah, but struggles and trials build character, and help our growth. Surely I am not that bad?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I like to think I am old enough that my character has already been built. Many of your actions embarrass us or offend us. But if I think about them, I must confess that on many occasions I conclude that there are good intentions behind your methods. You seem versed in scripture, though your interpretation thereof is somewhat flawed. However, I am prepared to listen to any arguments you may have that are scripture based; I am just a man, my interpretation may be flawed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I smiled deprecatingly. "If you were just an individual, I probably wouldn't bother so much. You are also the leader of parliament, and the man responsible for deposing your king. Along with the others, you have waged a civil war that is presumably still continuing, you have set up the witch persecutions that have caused thousands of innocents to die. What you and your companions believe has direct bearing on the wellbeing of England, and has caused untold suffering, far in excess of the suffering you claimed to be alleviating by removing the king. Personally, I don't care whether the king regains his throne or not. My concern isn't even with your soul, but with the good order of England. Prospero is the same, we want the outcome of these negotiations to be what is best for England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That was our intention when we deposed the king, and when we set up the witch trials. We wished to root out evil and heresy, so that others could live out peaceful and fulfilling lives. With hindsight, we seem to have gone about things the wrong way. Do you despise us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, I see you as products of your age. We are all products of out ages, except that we have studied history, we see the errors other ages made. If we learn from them, we do not have to repeat them. But you fell into the trap of assuming that the end justifies the means. When the means you use are evil, then you are no better than you enemies, and you become evil yourself."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He was nodding. "Yes, you have persuaded me that we did fall into that trap. That is why I am prepared to negotiate with king Charles. He behaved badly, but once we deposed him we also behaved badly, and now we must find a way to rectify this. But my principles as a Christian are not negotiable."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am not asking you to abrogate your principles, but I am asking you to consider that some of them could be improved. For example, I read somewhere that you are regarded as an enlightened and tolerant man because you allow other denominations into your army, although you ban Catholics. Where we come from, any discrimination based on religious beliefs is seen as evil. But that attitude is endemic to your society, it can only change slowly as people are educated. That is why a parliamentary democracy is so important - it reflects the standards and beliefs of the society. The best we can do is to show you that your beliefs are flawed, and educate you about a better way. But society changes slowly as people are educated. Would you sit with us and continue this discussion?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He pursed his lips, then nodded. "This discussion could last for ages. Very well, let us proceed to your table."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He returned with me, and sat. "We tend to think of society as unchanging, that there is one right way only. I find it hard to consider that there might be more than one right way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "That's because you see your society as static. Back in the Middle Ages it was self evident that the earth was flat, and that the sun went across the top. All the great religious thinkers of the day agreed in that. We know that was wrong, but they would have been very hard to convince the earth was round. Truth is relative, it has to be couched in terms that people understand."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Lady Nalini, I cannot agree that truth is relative. God's truth is absolute, unchanging. Our understanding of what constitutes god's truth may change because we are flawed humans, we can never know the mind of god."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I responded "If you set five people to interpret the bible, you will get six interpretations. That does not imply that four or five are wrong. Different people have different levels of understanding."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell countered "I thought that was what I was saying? That spiritual babes need spiritual milk, not meat? Many of those in England are spiritual babes, we seek to prevent them from coming into contact with harder fare, lest their lack of understanding lead them into error."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, but my point was that you give milk to babes, but stronger food to children and adults. You should not restrict everyone to baby food."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "And you should try to educate those others, and wean them onto stronger food."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell nodded thoughtfully. "There is something in what you say. But one must be careful not to confuse the babes with food meant for gown-ups."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But please don't fall into the trap of thinking you are at the pinnacle of spiritual understanding. We believe we are ahead of you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He smiled quietly "I know you people think that, though I would disagree. Your understanding is different from mine, how does that make yours superior?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "One example. You don't allow Catholics into your army." I answered. "We treat them the same as any other person. Why should you disallow them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz added "And be careful how you answer that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked thoughtful for a moment. "There are political and religious reasons. Politically, Catholics owe allegiance to their pope, and to catholic countries such as Spain, rather than to England and our king\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero interrupted "You have a strange way of showing allegiance to your king. I thought you had deposed him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell smiled sardonically. "You have me there, lord Prospero\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And I thing you will find that most Catholics, like most Jews, are loyal to England before they are loyal to any other country. Allow them freedom of worship here and they will have no need to seek help from other countries." I interjected.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But then they would spread their heresies!" Cromwell retorted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Which you can rebut by education. You claim the moral high ground, it is up to you to behave in an appropriate manner\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0." I started.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0If truth is on your side, then your truth will win over the falsehoods." Nalini continued. "But if yours be false, then you will not prevail."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What have you got against the catholic religion?" Liz asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I believe that the higher principles of Christianity bind all denominations together, but the protestant ones rebelled against the errors of the old catholic faith. The catholic faith is in error, and badly so; it would lead us to hell rather than heaven. But you asked why. Firstly, they have a pope, who is but a man like any other, yet he styles himself god's only representative on earth. Secondly, they worship their saints, in direct contradiction of the Ten Commandments. Thirdly, they claim that Jesus himself must descend from his throne to attend mass across the country, and be present in the wafers in every church\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I held up my hand to stop him. "I am sure you have many other reasons, but we should try to answer the points you raise while they are fresh. Liz is the only catholic here, but I think she would explain that Catholics do not worship the saints or Mary, instead ask them to pray with them. Those who think otherwise are in error. There probably are those uneducated people who do think they pray to saints, but they are wrong."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He held up his hand. "I would reply to that one now. We talked earlier about spiritual babes. My point is that while an educated person may ask the saints to pray with him, and not be committing any error, the practice confuses the uneducated. That is why is should be stopped."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And our point was that the uneducated should be educated. I think this point is the big one, all your other ones are matters of dogma and doctrine, and do not affect a person's spiritual wellbeing. Whether Jesus is really present in the wafer should not affect their spirituality, unless somehow you confuse the uneducated into worshiping the host."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But they have instructions that communicants cannot chew the wafer!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz responded "They used to be like that, but where we come from that hasn't been the case for at least thirty years or more."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think that there are areas in the catholic faith that need reform. You should be pleased to know that in our own world many of the issues you have either have been or are being addressed. Don't forget there are areas we could find in your own faith that need reform. But the point I wish to make lord Cromwell, is that whether or not you are catholic does not affect your value as a human being. If you see a fellow Christian who believes slightly differently from you, you may point out where the differences are, and why you think the other person is wrong, but it should never be done in anger. It must only be done with love, and compassion. If the other person lacks the level of understanding necessary, then you do not punish them. 'Lord forgive them, for they know not what they do.' You see, we believe that god will judge each of us according to our own beliefs. If you do not know, he will be more lenient than if you know. Compassion is one key that has been lacking from your own religion\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We ended up having a fairly long lasting discussion. The other puritans left, Matthew came over to join us; he and Cromwell seemed to be good friends. Our discussion ranged over religious dogma, theory and practice of parliamentary government and many other issues. Both Cromwell and Matthew seemed surprised at the many changes in the catholic faith between their society and ours. I know we made ground with Cromwell's attitudes; both he and Matthew did agree that they had been overly severe and lacking in compassion in some of the initiatives they had made while in government. Prospero stayed out of much of the religious discussion, but he joined in enthusiastically when we turned to government.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our discussion was interrupted by a page who entered the dining room looking for Prospero. They spoke privately for a minute before Prospero announced "Lord Cromwell, it seems your underlings have been arrested. They dropped my name, and the magistrate has requested that I present myself at his court. I think you and lord Matthew should accompany me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 An annoyed look crossed Cromwell's face, but he nodded. "With what are they charged?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I don't know. We must present ourselves at the court to find out. Nothing serious I hope." He turned to the page. "Tell the magistrate we will be there shortly." The page ran from the room. Prospero turned to the rest of us "Perhaps you would all like to accompany me? Hopefully this won't take too long, I would hate to miss Durathror's bout with king Amrik later this morning."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The magistrate's court was not in the palace, but several streets away. We walked. It was a lovely pleasant spring morning, and our way took us past some of the mansions of the nobles with their lavish gardens. The street was paved with large flagstones, and sloped down to the middle, where the drainage gutter ran. All the paved streets of Tarantia have drainage underneath, at periodic intervals the gutters run into the drains underneath the streets. Unlike modern cities, there is no concept of storm-water, gray-water and sewerage, everything drains into the same drain, which of course eventually flows into the Tarantella River. The poorest quarters do not have paved streets, they may have drainage ditches, but some areas simply flood when it rains.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The courthouse was a large building situated facing a square with shops, a fountain where naked nymphs sprayed water on each other and a few people sat in the sun on benches talking with one another. The courthouse was constructed from creamy yellow sandstone and had a slate roof. It was two storied high. We entered through the front door, where Prospero spoke directly with a clerk seated at a desk.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero turned to us and asked "Could you please remain here for a moment?" then followed the clerk down a corridor. The clerk returned a few minutes later and said to me "My lords and ladies, you are requested to follow me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We all trooped down the corridor and into a large office. Prospero was talking with a gray-haired man of medium stature. He turned and introduced everyone, then introduced the man. "This is lord Bordano, he is one of the king's magistrates. He is willing to hear the case right now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But with what are they charged?" Cromwell asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Lord Bordano looked at Cromwell with a bored expression. "Public uncleanliness. It seems that none of them have bathed for several days. It is a long time since we have heard such a case!" he sniffed. He rang a bell. When a clerk appeared he announced "Have the prisoners for the public uncleanliness charge lead into court room three."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell was looking at Matthew with disbelief. Finally he managed "Public uncleanliness? Do you have a law that requires bathing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh yes, we do. It may be over a thousand years old, it is seldom used now. Duke Prospero has explained that they are strangers here, I will be lenient. But really, no one has any excuse for not bathing, our public baths are free to all."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is fortunate that you can hear the case on such short notice" I commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Lord Bordano shrugged. "We usually do not here a case until a relative of the accused can be present. The drunk and disorderly cases from last night have all been dealt with, save one who is still sleeping in the cells. There are two thieves awaiting a hearing, the watch are searching their homes and talking with the householders who were robbed, I will probably hear them some time this afternoon. This morning is thus free of cases, so it is convenient for me to hear this case now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The clerk returned and announced "The prisoners are ready sir."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very good. This way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We followed him further along the corridor and into a larger room. The five prisoners were seated on the far side of the room on wooden benches, guarded by three guards in breastplates and carrying pikes. The judge indicated benches in the middle of the room for us to sit upon. He sat upon a chair behind a wooden desk on a raised dais. The clerk handed him a sheet of paper, which he glanced at. He surveyed the assembled people for several seconds before he began to speak. "Prisoners, you have been charged with public uncleanliness. I have a deposition here from several servants at the palace that you have not bathed in the last two days. Do any of you deny the truth of these charges?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They shook their heads. Lord Bordano continued "What do you have to say for yourselves?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Tobias managed to say, "Bathing causes disease. 'Tis a well known medical fact."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Lord Bordano looked at him disdainfully. "Young man" he said sharply "Do not try to lie to me. Dirt causes disease, that is a well known medical fact. A clean body is a healthy body, a clean body is a pure and spiritual body. Do you five have anything to say in your defense? Were you acquainted with the bathing facilities of your accommodation? Speak up!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They all nodded. He continued "Very well then. I find you all guilty as charged. Now, duke Prospero had informed me you are strangers here. While ignorance of the law is no excuse, he has asked me to be lenient. It is within my powers to order you to be taken to the river, stripped of your clothes, and publicly scrubbed with horse brushes. I can also order you be left naked in stocks in any public square, with a sign to the effect that you are guilty of public uncleanliness. I cannot believe that five educated people do not know the simple facts of bathing. Your body odors cause offence to all around you. You are guilty of wallowing in your filth like pigs. Let me explain something to each of you. I do not care what you do back in the country you come from. For all I care, you may never bathe your entire life. But Aquilonia has a long tradition of civic pride. Citizens take pride in themselves and keep themselves and their city clean. In any large city there are always a few such as yourselves who take it upon themselves to offend their fellows. We have a law that requires a person to bathe daily, and wash their clothes. We do not like a dirty city, we do not like dirty people. Duke Prospero, there are bathing facilities in the palace close to their accommodation?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Assuredly, Lord Bordano. They occupy two suites of four bedrooms, each suite has a common sitting area, an office area and a bathroom with a six person bath and a flushing toilet. Servants are available to run baths and scrub backs if necessary."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good. I make the following order. You shall be escorted from here to your place of abode, and there you shall bathe until you are clean. The palace bath servants shall give whatever assistance is required. Once clean, you shall don clean clothes, and you shall each report back here to prove that you are clean. This is to be done before noon. You are further required to bathe daily, and don clean clothes daily. Failure to do so will result in you being rearrested, and charged again. Next time I will order you publicly scrubbed, and if you come before me for a third time, you will spend the day naked in the public square as well. A copy of my judgement will be made available to you as soon as the scribe can write a copy. You may collect it when you return. Guards, would you be so kind as to convey the prisoners to their accommodation and ensure they bathe, then escort them back here? And clerk, please air this room to rid it of the sour odors." He stood and walked from the room.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is that it?" Cromwell asked. We stood and began filing from the room.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero responded "Yes Lord Cromwell, that is it. Provided they obey our laws, there will be no further problem. Are you satisfied with this?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell sighed. "It is a strange law, but bathing daily should not be too onerous. We English do not normally bathe daily. The climate is cool, we do not smell. Here is warmer, I will concede that it is necessary to bathe more frequently. But daily bathing? As Tobias said, our physicians tell us that frequent bathing does cause disease."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini shook her head. "I'm afraid that your physicians are ignorant. Do they also apply leeches?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell replied "To the best of my knowledge."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini continued "I thought so. They believe that too much blood or too much phlegm causes disease. There are other cultures that believe the same, they are severely ignorant though. Disease is caused by minute organisms called germs that are too small to see with the naked eye. Generally they live in filth, garbage, on rats and flies so on. The epidemics of black death that have occurred in the past are due to germs carried by the fleas on rats. Germs are the reason wounds fester. Germs also live in sweat, the dung you pass, and will grow around your back passage if you do not wash after each bowel motion." Germs would not be a theory until Louis Pasteur more than a century later.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Something else to consider. The Hebrews of the Old Testament certainly knew that filth caused disease. If you read, you will find lots of directives that filth, dead bodies and so on be removed from the camp, and that the Hebrews should wash after handling anything dirty, and prior to eating. The Old Testament Hebrews were much cleaner than you English."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell and Matthew looked at one another. Cromwell commented "We must research this."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew nodded, then remarked "I presume that washing oneself is considered bathing? I did not bathe yesterday, but I did wash."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero replied "If you washed yourself, then you cleaned yourself. That is the import of the law. It is an old law, I presume it is there for the same reason that the Old Testament laws on cleanliness are there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, undoubtedly" Matthew remarked piously. "I have never heard of these germs, or even that filth caused disease, but if god saw fit to instruct the Hebrews about washing then it must be true. We have obviously misunderstood the import of some parts of scripture. Cromwell you are right, we must research this."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell replied "Yes, we must consider what is part of the new covenant, what pertains to the old, and what is god's instructions for good health." The two of them fell to talking, oblivious to the rest of us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero said "Danny, I am glad you were able to relate our law back to their scripture. They completely change their attitude once they are convinced that they are somehow contravening their scripture."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, the fight goes out of them. We intend to keep needling them every time they complain about something, if I can think of some scriptural reference. I can't promise that though, my knowledge is limited."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Are we gonna have time to see Durathror challenge Amrik?" Paula asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, I certainly hope so. We should swing by the training ground now, and find out if they are there yet."}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Some of the courtiers were already training. Amrik was there, working out with weights, Durathror was performing some slow ballet like movements. Amrik spied us, and called out "Ho, here come the laggards! Are you training today?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We have just come from court, where the puritans were tried for public uncleanliness. Is there time for us to change?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There is time. How did they take the charges?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The five who were charged were meek as lambs, but Cromwell sat through the trial with a face like a thunderclap. They didn't even know that dirt causes disease!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik shook his head. "Amazing! And they claim to be educated. What happened?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero chuckled. "The judge ordered them to be bathed, and made it clear that should they appear again he would not be lenient. They were escorted to the baths. Cromwell was not impressed, but then Danny pointed out that their scripture has a passage about the necessity for cleanliness and washing, and suddenly he was a different man. He and Matthew have gone to research the passages in question."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik lay down on his back on a bench, while two servants carried over a heavy barbell between them. They positioned it behind his head. "You'd better go and change. I will be finished my weights soon." He proceeded to raise and lower the barbell in an exercise that targeted his bulging triceps.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We changed swiftly, and returned. There were more courtiers there, along with king Charles and the three cavaliers. He was dressed in fencing gear like the others, but since he was limbering up, he wasn't wearing his mask.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror was performing another routine, but this one was several times faster than the other one. There were times when he seemed almost to blur as he moved, and often his feet seemed scarcely to touch the ground. His sword seemed to weave a glittering net. Amrik was making a few practice swipes with his sword. He spotted us and called out "Ho! Join me in some katas."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our legs were warm from walking, but Nalini and I took five minutes to limber up the rest of our bodies, then we joined him for three sword katas. Durathror stopped to watch us. When we finished, he remarked "King Amrik, I will teach you some that I know. They will improve your speed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik chuckled "If you can beat me, you can teach me!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror replied "Fair enough! If you beat me, you can teach me! But first, little sister, I would see you in action against Danny."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 So Nalini and I paired off, and for ten minutes we sparred against each other. I think the score was something like seven to five when Durathror stopped us. "You have come a long way from the timid girl who once found her way to my door! I can see you have been practicing. I will teach you all one of my katas later."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik rumbled "Most of my courtiers find it amazing that a girl can use a sword at all. In my home region, near the border, the women fight alongside their menfolk, and many of them are as good the men. Nalini is better than most of the men I know, she is now one of the finest swordsmen in the kingdom. Well Prince Durathror, shall we start?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stood back with the others, while Durathror and Amrik took our place. They seemed ill matched: Durathror is about five foot one and slim, while Amrik is about six foot five with the muscles of a body builder. They both bore similar practice swords, curved sabers with a partial basket hilt. They did not start in the en guard position of fencers, but stood about three meters apart.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At first they circled one another warily. Durathror suddenly tossed his sword from his right hand to his left. As he did so, Amrik attacked ferociously. There was a clatter and glitter of steel, then Durathror was behind Amrik calling "You're dead Amrik!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They circled again, this time Durathror attacked. His sword was a blur. Surprisingly, he did not meet Amrik's sword, he never seemed to be where Amrik was striking. Every time Amrik struck at him he dodged, and landed his counter attack. It did not matter what Amrik did, Durathror was far too fast for him. Finally Amrik called a halt to the proceedings. "I admit it, I am well and truly outclassed. Never have I seen anyone who could fight like that." He clapped Durathror on the shoulder.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror smiled graciously. "Don't feel so bad about it king Amrik, I have been practicing every day for over twelve hundred years. You are a superb fighter yourself, you made me work to defeat you. I promise I will train you myself, one day you will be my equal."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik shook his head ruefully. "I'll never live that long!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh? You wear a torc now; you will live much longer than normal. Now, who are your best swordsmen? I would fight them all."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik selected Nalini and myself, Prospero, Rupert and three of his knights whom we did not know. "There are others who are not quite as good as these, but I would say that all of these are on a par with one another."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We all joined them, and the melee commenced. Eight is about the maximum number of people who can attack an individual, as it is they can get in each other's way. The idea is that they encircle the individual, and all try to attack at once. Durathror never let us completely encircle him, instead he always took the attack to one of us, and then broke through the circle. We stopped the fight after fifteen minutes feeling rather frustrated, and all of us sporting bruises from hits by Durathror.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I felt two hits during the entire fight. If I am not mistaken, both of them were from Nalini. So, between all of you, I have met my match." He was smiling.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I didn't think I actually touched you." Nalini responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh I felt your energies Nalini. You are the only one I have trained, you are the only one who has some idea about my fighting techniques."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik turned to the assembled audience. "Fight's over boys and girls. You can go back to your training now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror taught the eight of us one of his katas. The form is different from kendo katas, there are more body movements, and when done by Durathror, the sword weaves a net of light. Durathror explained "These are the advanced forms, I will only teach them to someone who is already an excellent swordsman. Now, let me show you the butterfly kata."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He picked up a second sword, and then launched into his butterfly kata. His body seemed almost to whirl like a dervish, while the two swords spun a silver web. Several times during the kata he sprang, flying several meters each time. When he finished, he commented "There are twenty seven other katas you should learn before you move up to using two swords. You should practice each one for at least a year to master it and only then should you learn the next one. I have taught you the first one, I will correct your practice of it while I am here. The idea is to increase the speed at which you perform it, until you reach a point where I am satisfied."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After this, we returned to more normal practice. Amrik went to spar with today's group of soldiers. Nalini and I dispensed with swords, and went to unarmed forms. We also supervised Paula and Liz's training. Prospero and Rupert fenced with each other, and seemed evenly matched. King Charles acquitted himself reasonably well against king Amrik's knights. He was good enough to beat a number of them, and seemed quite pleased with himself.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It was only when we were finishing that we noticed Cromwell and Matthew standing back amongst the hangers on. They were easily spotted by their distinctive hats. Liz referred to them as "circling vultures"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell moved over to king Charles and commented "You majesty, please allow me to complement you on your prowess with a sword."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles smiled sweetly. "So today I am your majesty? Should I draw hope from that? I am pleased with my fencing. In England, when I trained, I know my instructors and training partners would let me win. I never knew whether my skills were adequate, good or bad. I have seen that these cavaliers show no deference to their own king when they fence with him. Today I fenced on my own merits against cavaliers who were determined to defeat me. I won more bouts than I lost, so I am happy. I know I can improve, having seen his majesty king Amrik in action I feel that I should improve my skills as much as I am able."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell replied slowly "You have always been my king, even when I lead the parliament to vote for your forced abdication. I will not lie, I put god and England before your own welfare, but I voted against your outlawry and its attendant death sentence. I believe now that we might find an honorable path through our problems."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles studied Cromwell for several moments. "You are uncommonly mellow. What has caused this?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell smiled ruefully. "Let us say the scales have fallen from my eyes. I have always tried to act in accordance with god's holy word, as revealed in his scriptures. But several times in the past few days god has used earl Danny as an instrument to reveal that my understanding of the bible has been flawed. I realize that some of the things that have happened are contrary to god's intentions and proscriptions. As a man of god, I now seek to rectify those lapses. I believe that this is best done with your cognizance and participation."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At that point they walked out of earshot. I mentioned what I had overheard to Prospero. "It does sound promising. Would you and Nalini be able to attend this afternoon's session?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That afternoon Nalini and I sat in as representatives of the people of England. We were hampered by not knowing enough about the situation of the people of England, but both of us have fairly strong ideas about equality for all, and took a stand against privilege. In our own cultures we are probably representative of mainstream thought, but in England of the mid seventeenth century we were quite extreme, and managed to offend both Cromwell and king Charles.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We pushed for a House of Commons, a parliament where the ordinary people would have a voice. Cromwell wanted his House of Lords, a parliament of nobles, but not a House of Commons. King Charles wanted neither.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell wanted the king to have no real powers, similar to the Westminster model, where the king can summon and pirogue parliament and sign laws, but does little else. Here we aligned with Prospero in pushing for more of an American model, with the president replaced by a hereditary king.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell became quite heated about despotic kings, I countered with "And under your model, who will curb the powers of despotic nobles? Who will give voice to the ordinary people, and prevent the abuse of privilege that has gone on for thousands of years?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 King Charles countered with "But why should the commoners have a voice? They are uneducated, selfish, they know nothing of the government of the country."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini jumped in with "And what about the nobles fencing in the commons so the ordinary people can no longer graze their cattle? What about the privilege that says only the king may hunt deer? What about the law that says that a farmer may not kill the hare that eats his cabbage? Is that fair? It's time both of you got off your pedestals and started looking after the ordinary people. Forget this talk about rights, and start discussing obligations. Obligations like ensuring that people have enough to eat, are not thrown off their land, have peace to bring up their families without wars. Both of you failed dismally! Both of you abused your sacred trusts!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added, "Why do you think Jesus hung around with ordinary people? Why do you think he washed the feet of his disciples?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Both Charles and Cromwell looked angry. Charles commented "We are back to this again? It has always been the king's right to hunt deer..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And allow the ordinary people to starve? Or should they kill a deer to feed their starving families, you make them criminals and outlaws?" Nalini spat back. "Your obligation is to ensure they do not starve! Otherwise you are guilty of murder, just as surely as if you had cut their heads off."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero tried to smooth things over. "These are minor points, but do serve to illustrate the obligations of the government."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell commented "I for one do not hunt, I do not approve of it. But I am inclined to agree with princess Nalini, that when people are starving, they should be allowed to hunt for food. But please tell me earl Danny, why did Jesus wash the feet of his disciples?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'The first shall be last.' Remember? He did not stand on his rights, but showed that everyone has obligations to look after their fellows. Washing people's feet was an obligation in the Holy Land, where there were no paved roads, and everyone entered a house with dirty feet. Every household had to provide someone to wash the feet of visitors, but of course usually it would be a lowly servant. Jesus showed that everyone must fulfil their obligations, and not pass it off to someone else. That a king or the Son of God is not above ordinary people, and has the same obligations as everyone else. But you two would set yourselves above others, as their betters. You are not their betters, they are yours!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles looked angry, but Cromwell looked as if he was chewing this over. "You have a way of putting things in a different light. We should aspire to emulate the Son of God, even though we know we are not perfect."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All people should be equal before the law, instead of one law for the rich, and one for the poor. If a noble commits a crime, his punishment should be no less than would be meted out to a commoner. But the commoners must have their voice, otherwise the king and nobles will ride roughshod over them as they always have. Any law must be assented to by the king, by the House of Lords, and by the House of Commons. That way, each party provides a check upon the powers of the others."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles protested "But the commoners are uneducated and self interested!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I both laughed. "How is that different from the nobles or the king?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nobles at least have some training in the good order of their estates."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "King Charles, do you want to be a figurehead as Cromwell would have you? Under this arrangement, you are still king, you can still make laws, but the two parliaments must assent to those laws. That protects against the king making unjust laws. But equally, any law that either house passes must gain royal assent as well. You have the right to modify it and send it back for reconsideration."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We argued round in circles for a while. Cromwell became an early convert, seeing the wisdom of checks and balances; Charles held out for a time. But he could not suggest alternatives that did not involve giving the king despotic powers, or doing away with most of the checks and balances. Prospero spoke at some length about how what we were proposing was similar to what Aquilonia was in the process of setting up, and did a good job of cutting off lines of discussion that lead too far away from the main topic.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When we broke for refreshments, he talked things over with Imladril and Durathror, then came to sit with the rest of us. "I am not happy with your proposal, but I agree that at least I am still king, even if parliament must assent to my laws. Cromwell would have me restored as a figurehead only. Cromwell, if you will support lord Danny's proposal, then I will also."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell nodded. "I have misgivings about the House of Commons, but I feel that it is in accord with Jesus' teachings. We do have an obligation to look after the commoners as well. If you will be king under this model, then I will agree to your restoration."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "Good! You will be able to have extensive dialogs with us about how we organize it, and the problems we encounter. We could learn from each others' experiences."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After refreshments, Prospero called in another lord who was involved in setting up the process for parliamentary government, and the two of them spoke in turns about how they were organizing things.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Later, Prospero invited Imladril and Durathror with their partners to his apartment for drinks. We discussed the day's negotiations. Paula commented "Hey, it sounds like they've agreed!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero shook his head. "This is just the first hurdle. There are forty seven points to be negotiated, this was point one. It is the biggest, that I grant, but I always thought they would agree in principle. It is a compromise between what Cromwell originally wanted, and what the king originally wanted, and does not compromise Cromwell's religious principles. The other points are smaller, they will be harder to compromise on. But it is a significant day."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril agreed with Prospero "The biggest point is often the easiest to gain agreement on. The minor details are where negotiations usually come unstuck. Cromwell is quite easy to manipulate, as long as we relate what we want back to his religious principles."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded "Yes, once he sees that there is a religious argument in favor of our point, he acquiesces. I just hope we can continue to find such points."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror commented "Well, between Danny and I we should be able to. Now, how do we manipulate the king?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded "That is harder. He has gained his main wish, which is to be restored to the throne. But I believe that he will probably lose interest in the remaining negotiations, it will be mainly Cromwell we will have to convince."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Iskandor chuckled "I will wager Charles will be scheming how to turn things around once he is restored, and do away with Cromwell."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He will, but I think even he realizes he would precipitate another civil war" Imladril observed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He might." Prospero conceded. "We know that Cromwell's supporters won't go away, but will the king realize that? A docile Cromwell is the key to restoring peace to England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But this is where the protocols and guarantees come in." Imladril commented. "We must turn our thoughts to this in the not too distant future, otherwise all out efforts will be undone within weeks of their return to England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Weren't we going to send some sort of monitoring force - a bit like the UN peace keeping forces?" I wondered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, but we need to work out how many people it needs, where they will be stationed, what their duties are, and guidelines for them." Imladril responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "We also need someone senior to head it up, and we need to open an embassy, and negotiate closer links with England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril commented "We will need a senior sorcerer, otherwise\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror interrupted "I have already volunteered to head up the diplomatic mission. I know something of their shadow, I have lived in similar ones, I am known to both Cromwell and the king, I understand the negotiations, and I will take no nonsense from either of them. I don't see a problem. I will take volunteers with me, and I will keep them to their promises. I am almost looking forward to it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Except they will probably try to burn us as sorcerers." Ra'anor observed. "I have begun to like the civilized things we can get in shadows such as Danny's and Nalini's."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We will still go visiting. But someone has to oversee the implementation of this. By rights it should be Prospero, but he is not sorcerer enough to handle it yet." He turned to Prospero. "I expect you to volunteer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, I expect I will be our first ambassador to England. Amrik will complain, but I am the most suited. Once the initial set up is over, we can leave it to others. I wish to develop trade and cultural links."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I don't wish to be the one to pick holes, but once they find out you are not protestant, they will probably cut you dead." I observed. "Cromwell is going to discover this very soon. He will want to attend church, probably even tomorrow, I think that is their Sunday, and if he watches the wedding he'll know for sure. What happens then?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We'll deal with that when it happens." Prospero replied. "He has to learn religious tolerance. If he proves to be too much of a nuisance, we might not let him back. We'll have to play it by ear I think."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What's happened about the civil war and the witch persecutions?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, that was settled in the first negotiations. Cromwell will dismantle the witch persecutions, and declare a cease-fire. With king Charles being restored to the throne, this makes it all the more palatable to the royalists. We still have to discuss things like pardons for all the executed, restitution of their property and so on, but they are other points of negotiation."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  That evening, there was no official banquet. Durathror invited all of us to a restaurant he knew off in shadow. He extended the invitation to Enyil and Amrik, who accepted with alacrity. Instead of sending a servant back to inform us, they came themselves. Amrik announced "'Twill be a relief to quit the palace for a night! I swear Prospero, had I know what was in store for me as king, I would never have accepted the crown!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why do you think I refused it?" Prospero responded with a laugh.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hah! Some friend! Still, at least it stopped a civil war, and prevented the crown from falling into the hands of one of those brigands that have the cheek to call themselves noble. Tonight I can be plain Amrik. Do I need my sword?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No friend Amrik," Durathror replied "It will attract unwelcome attention."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik unbuckled his sword, and placed it on the floor underneath a low table. "I feel undressed now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert asked, "Should we invite king Charles?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik made a face, but said nothing. Prospero replied "No, I have arranged other entertainment for him. He will undoubtedly be happier being the center of attention anyway. He doesn't strike me as being the sort of person who enjoys blending into the crowd."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You are right there." Rupert responded. "I thought merely that if he was in his rooms he would prefer to come with us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled "Charles and my mother seem to enjoy one another's company, and she will certainly treat him like a visiting dignitary. I have made sure that he will not want for entertainment while he is with us. Your three cavalier friends I have found a party of knights who seem to suit them, and there are ladies of the court who are interested in keeping them company as well." He grinned broadly. "Had you not struck up a friendship with Liz, I would have organized something similar for you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert blushed, but replied in a courtly manner "I thank you Prospero, but yes, I enjoy the company of the lady Elizabeth, and I enjoy the company of those of you here. I am certainly not bored."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The puritans are more of a problem, since they do not appreciate the entertainments that the others do. My spies tell me that tonight Cromwell will conduct a bible study class for them, so they are catered for as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror lead us from Prospero's apartments and down the stairs leading to the outside. Liz asked "How do your spies understand English?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Enyil replied "I have set a translation spell upon them. They can understand anything that is spoken, it helps them to understand biblical references, but they cannot read Cromwell's journal."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I asked, "What else do the puritans do with themselves?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Mostly they talk amongst themselves." Prospero responded. "Cromwell writes a journal each evening, he and Matthew spend time studying the bible. My spies can understand much of that, because they discuss the bible between them. They were all being visited by those beings that masqueraded as their gods, they all saw Durathror unmask them as demons, and now they have doubts about any divine revelation. But it does seem that the seeds you planted are bearing fruit. They study the bible, and find passages that support the point of view you have been expressing. Cromwell and Matthew at least seem to have decided they were wrong, and that the bible supports your view, so now they are finding new strength for a campaign to right the wrongs they unleashed. It does seem quite hopeful."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini chuckled "I suppose you can't just line them up with a girl for the night, you can't take them out drinking or eating or dancing. What can you do with them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There are some tours of the city that we're arranging. They won't play board games\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But they might play chess." I interrupted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "I have several chess sets, I will see if they are interested. I must confess I have been guilty of not arranging as many entertainments for them because I don't know what entertainments to arrange."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror conjured a light, and lead us across the castle lawns. We shifted rapidly through several darkened gardens before we came to a street with streetlights. Durathror extinguished his light, and lead us through a number of suburban and city streets. After about fifteen minutes, we arrived in some well-lit ornamental gardens. Nalini and I had been trying to detect the shadows Durathror selected, but to no avail, they were too distant for us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We crossed a small bridge over a stream, and came to a sprawling restaurant. It consisted of a number of areas spread through the gardens, lit by floating globes that shed a soft white light over the scene. Each area was a differently themed garden. We were led to an area with exotic night blooming flowers that gave off a heady scent. There were flagstones underfoot, but the night air was mild. The waiters dragged several tables together so we could all see one another and talk.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The menu was a thick illustrated book, but Durathror waved it away. "We will have a banquet, just be sure to include some vegetarian dishes, and a selection of wines to accompany each dish." The waiter departed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I glanced through the menu. There seemed to be thousands of pictures, the dishes seemed to run a whole gamut of known styles, plus many we did not recognize. The writing made no sense to me. It had the look of an alphabet with flowing symbols that were grouped to form words.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror explained "There are far to many dishes to ever make sense of. I think even Prospero could eat here for ten years and never have the same dish twice! They have many banquets; the banquets always include a selection of their more popular dishes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So where are we?" Liz asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Several of us chuckled, the question did not make sense to shadow shifters. Durathror replied "I do not know the name of this land, nor can I speak their language, let alone read their writing. Korum stumbled across this one day, and then showed me how to find it. What I do know of it is that the art of shadow walking is known in this shadow, and they trade with other shadows. Sorcery abounds here. They have some technology they have collected from journeys to other shadows. If you look around, you will see that not all people here are human."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Some distance over was a table with creatures that bore a resemblance to preying mantises. I had no idea what they were eating, and probably no desire to find out either. Rupert's jaw fell open when he spied them. "I see what you mean." He stammered. "Would they eat food like us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor answered "They have a menu devoted to their own peculiar tastes. I think they like their food live. We've seen others like them here before, though neither of us is sure what shadow they come from."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This could be an interesting place to stay for a while" Nalini commented. "It seems reasonably civilized, they accept people like us. I would like to come back here one day for some holidays." I agreed; to us new civilizations are interesting. We enjoy exploring and living in new ones, but preferably ones where we are not in danger.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "I will have to come back here. The idea that I could eat here every day for ten years without ever having the same dish sounds like my idea of heaven!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula responded "Well, why don't the four of us come here for some holidays? Durathror, how far is this from Aquilonia? I mean for me and Prospero?" Then she turned to Liz and apologized "Sorry Liz, you have to come too. It's just that you can't shadow shift yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz made a half smile. "It's okay, I've been tagging along with Danny and Nalini, so that's why you forgot me. Just don't make a habit of it huh?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror cut in "Liz, you are always welcome to tag along with Ra'anor and myself as well. Once you learn to shadowshift, you will be able to invite us to visit places you've discovered. Now Paula, this place would probably take you about five or six hours to reach from Aquilonia, and probably longer from your home. Danny and Nalini could probably take half that time or less, but they are still developing their powers too. We'll bring you back here evenings when Amrik doesn't have any official banquets scheduled."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There's none tomorrow night either." Amrik put in. "I'd be happy to come back here again. Can we wander the gardens later?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The food began to arrive. There was finger food reminiscent of a yum cha, there were dishes of vegetables prepared a dozen different ways, there were spiced meats and things we couldn't recognize. Most of the dishes seemed to be simple combinations prepared to highlight the individual flavors of the ingredients. Different wines were served or each dish, some of them with quite novel flavors. Nalini ordered a side serving of raw chili, just in case she decided the dishes were too bland for her tastes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert asked one of the waiters about the strange creatures. The waiter replied "Oh, we cater for the sentient races from all thirty one aethyrs. Those are byroni, I think they are from the eleventh aethyr, but I'm not sure."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Have you visited any of the other aethyrs?" Nalini inquired.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No ma'am, though one day I hope to. I get to meet many travelers in this job, some of the aethyrs sound marvelous."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thirty one?" I remarked once he had departed. "He didn't call them shadows either, he used the word aethyr."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror shook his head. "We heard it in our native tongue, he used an archaic term for the spirit world, but in plural."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik commented to Prospero "I thought he called them celestial spheres or something like that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded "Yes, I thought he used an ancient poetic reference to the abode of the gods: the celestial spheres."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula commented "I heard him use the word dimensions; he said there were thirty one dimensions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked at the rest of us, then said "I heard him say thirty one planes, it made sense to me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked around slowly. "Magic. I have always been taught to fear it. But I have no other word to refer to the face that he speaks his native language, and I hear him speak my native German. To me he used a term that I would render in English as aethyr. Queen Elizabeth's astrologer Dr. John Dee used the term to refer to the spiritual realms inhabited by different kinds of angels. Why thirty one?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril hazarded a guess "It may be that they have easy travel between thirty one shadows, as we refer to them. The rest of you, if you will observe around you, and count, there are thirty one shadows that stand out as close, very close in fact. I suspect that with a little training, anyone could travel to these. The barriers between them are thinner than normal. I agree with Nalini, I think it would be interesting to visit these shadows, and learn about them. They obviously trade and travel freely between them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Normally when I activate my sorcerer's senses to detect and sift shadows, I have a sense of reaching out to find those closest to me. Here, opening my shadow senses I immediately felt as if a number of shadows were crowding around me and touching me. If anything they obscured those more distant. I counted twenty nine the first time, and thirty two the second.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror reached across to Liz, took her hand. "Here Liz, let me loan you some energy. See if you can detect anything."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She sat back, shut her eyes, and was quiet for a time. Finally she remarked "I get the impression of a lake, and a separate impression of red earth and green trees, and I think there are others, but they all jumbled up."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good, good! You can sense them. After dinner, we might take you on a short trip through the ones nearest so you can see how many you could gain impressions of."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert shook his head sadly. "I am afraid it is all a mystery to me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Ra'anor remarked "With training, you will be able to sense the other shadows, and one day you will also be able to travel as we do. For now, you must try to find any of us in your dreams. Once you can accomplish this then we can teach you more. You should come with Liz later, so that you know what is nearby."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded. "Thank you lady Ra'anor, I would appreciate that. I must admit I am fascinated by these other realms, these aethyrs as he termed them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The food was tasty. Some of it was savory, some of it was sweet, some of it was highly spiced. Nalini and I threw away our vegetarian principles and sampled dishes with flesh in them. Many of the flavors are indescribable, simply because I have never tasted them before. There were twelve of us, and I think they had allowed four dishes per person. This meant we had forty eight different dishes to share between us, although the quantities we had of each were small. Prospero was definitely in gourmet heaven.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The wines were a good accompaniment to the dishes, and were as varied. There was a pale lavender wine that had a floral scent and taste, but with spicy overtones, another one was pale pink with a citrus scent and quite a dry finish. Another had a peppery peppermint taste, while another honey colored wine burned like horseradish or chili. That one wasn't so popular, though Nalini liked it. We did not have forty eight bottles of wine, had we done so, most of us would have been too drunk to find our way home, and some might have had to be carried. Interestingly enough, one bottle that contained an almost clear wine with slight blue overtones, and tasted like a mixture of orange and cinnamon, did not seem to contain alcohol, but a stimulant drug of some kind. After half a glass of that I was wide awake.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik commented "Seems a waste of good alcohol. I drink enough to become mellow, and this cancels it out. Hey Prospero, maybe we should take some back to drink during the day instead of coffee?" Amrik would drink coffee, but had never taken to it the way that Prospero had.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror observed "Amrik, I don't think this sobers you up, it just makes you a wide awake drunk."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, now that is all right then. I would hate to think I would have to start all over again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented at large "I think we should probably go easy on this one, we don't know what its affects are."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I beckoned to a waiter, and asked her. "Oh, that is brewed from the coca plant, you should not drink more than one glass, because you will be awake all night. One bottle should be ample between all of you. But if you do all want to stay awake until morning, I can bring you another one."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, one will suffice. Just out of interest, do you have any other drinks that have other than alcohol in them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, but you have to ask for them specifically. We only serve enough coca for half a glass per guest unless they request more."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So what ones do you have? We are not familiar with your wines."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, sorcerers, I understand. Erm, we have five other wines, three will make you see visions, one is made from cactus, one from mushrooms, and one from a white flower. The other two are tranqs, they will mellow you out and calm you down. One is made from the sap of a small red flower, the other is made from the seeds of the black lotus."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thanks, I think we'll give them a miss this time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik turned to Prospero. "Black lotus? Isn't that the drug surgeons use when they must cut people?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded "I believe so. I suspect the juice of the red flower is probably opium poppies, I think we should leave them both alone."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril remarked "I think we should leave all of them alone. I do not approve of general consumption of drugs."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert was puzzled. "I think I have missed something..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There is a right time and place for the use of drugs." Imladril explained. "The black lotus and the red poppy both produce drugs that put you to sleep, or in lesser doses will deaden pain. If you have to go under a surgeon's knife, then you can sleep while they cut and sew, or you can have the pain of your wounds dulled."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert asked "Is that the red poppy that grows back home? I don't think any physicians or apothecaries know about it, as far as I am aware we have nothing to deaden pain, and nothing to make you sleep while a surgeon cuts."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think it might be. The sap of the flower bulb is collected. When we return you, I will have a look. If it is, I can teach you or some physicians you select how to prepare and administer it. But both are addictive, if you use them too often, or in too high a dosage, then you will suffer pains if you do not take them. They also impair your sorcerous abilities; you won't be able to shadow shift while under their influence. Coca I am not so familiar with, it is a much stronger stimulant than coffee, as the girl explained, one glass of that wine and you will be awake all night. That in itself is bad, you need to sleep to recuperate, staying awake all night will harm your body and discolor your energies. But what we have had is probably no worse than strong coffee. The other three stimulate your sorcerous abilities; they should only be used under supervision of a sorcerer. You can stray into all sorts of trouble if you have wild flickerings of sorcerous powers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  After dinner, Durathror and Ra'anor took Liz and Rupert for a tour of the nearby shadows while the rest of us went for a walk through the gardens. Imladril was interested in our assessment of Rupert and Liz's relationship. "She needs a man either to train her or to train with her. Rupert could fill that need; he has the potential to be a sorcerer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They seem to get on well," Nalini offered "but I think both of them have some prejudices to get over. She thinks he's only attracted to her because of her skin color, he will probably want a noble wife to fit into their society."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Like Prospero you mean." Imladril replied. "Prospero and Rupert are similar. Both are expected to marry some noblewoman for reasons of property rather than love and compatibility. Prince Rupert has a title, but he is not the eldest son, he will never inherit a throne, and he has little money of his own. He is not the catch that Prospero is, with his large estates and being next in line to the throne."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If I might make an observation" Prospero ventured "Prince Rupert has a better temperament than the others. He is educated, self-assured, a general at the age of twenty four, yet he has an open mind and does not seem to be prejudiced. He also has an interest in science and engineering. He and I have a lot in common. I think if he will learn sorcery, then he will suit Liz very well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But will Liz suit him?" Nalini asked. "Prospero, you and Paula have the same skin color, so the question does not arise. But Liz is dark, she has come in for some prejudice and abominable treatment when she was younger. Also Prospero, I have noticed that Aquilonia does have a few nobles with brown skin, you people don't seem to have color prejudice..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, we don't Nalini. The people to the north tend to be pale skinned, the people to the south tend to be darker skinned. Our southern neighbors are quite dark, they look African and Indian; we have traded and intermarried with them for hundreds of years. Do you mean that Rupert's society is all pale skins? And they are prejudiced against those who are darker?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prince Rupert has never seen people with dark skins until he met us." Nalini explained. "I don't think he is prejudiced simply because he has never learned he should be. But the Christian culture of that time saw everything in terms of good and evil, white and black. White is seen as good, black as evil. I think you will find that there are already African slaves being shipped to the Americas. Liz will encounter prejudice in the England or Germany of Prince Rupert. It probably won't be as bad as some things she has already encountered, but she has a poor impression of most whites. She has trouble trusting most of them, and she has trouble trusting most males, black or white."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril looked hard at Nalini, then remarked "Oh. I understand. But Prince Rupert is a gentleman, he is polite and will respect her wishes. He will be part of her healing. I think I should talk with her myself, and see if she is in need of any healing from me. You all are also part of her healing, she is learning that she can trust people outside her family. Fine, let's leave it for now. We will train Rupert if he qualifies, and we will put him together with Liz when we can. Liz may need healing before things develop. Otherwise it will be up to the two of them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The gardens themselves were extensive; we did not tour more than a small percentage of them. My impressions were that the restaurant extended through a large part of the gardens, but many areas catered for guests from other aethyrs with different eating habits. Most of the plants in the areas we visited were night blooming, no doubt because most of the patrons ate there at night.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We did pass close to an area where the Byroni, the preying mantis like creatures, were eating. They were probably about four feet or one meter high, but their bodies would have been almost seven meters or twenty five feet long, and mainly colored a brilliant emerald green. Each creature had slightly different colored markings on their backs and thoraxes, flecks of red or gold about the size of coins. Their huge compound eyes reflected the light like polished gems the size of bowling balls. They did not sit, but stood on their four rear legs, torsos raised, and ate from a table that must have been at least two meters from the ground. The three closest to us were dining on live blue-green lobster-like crustaceans the size of dogs, chewing bits off in their sideways working jaws while their dinner struggled to escape.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We looked, we couldn't help ourselves. One of the creatures passed comment to another <<Stupid humans staring.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Another commented <<Should ban them when we're eating.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril bowed and replied <<Your pardons, noble creatures. We are travelers, we have been rude. We humbly apologize. We will let you eat in peace.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One of the creatures replied <<Ah! Sorcerers! You can speak as we do. You are not from the thirty one aethyrs then?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<No, we have journeyed some distance to visit here. This is the first of the aethyrs we have visited.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<You should visit them all. This one is nice, as are many others, but our own is especially magnificent.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Thank you, we will be sure to visit there. Enjoy your meal.>> We continued on.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Oh, we are! These <unknown symbol> have been specially fed to improve their taste!>> One thought after us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik asked "Are there many odd creatures like that? I shall think twice next time I squash a bug in the garden, lest it have relatives like that!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Enyil laughed gently. "Amrik my love, it is likely they do not care for bugs in your garden any more than we do. You saw what they ate. But sentience does not always come in human form."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do you think they would eat us?" he wondered aloud.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe not. Would you consider eating one of them? We are probably just as repulsive to them as they are to us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I hadn't thought of it like that. I never dreamed such things could exist."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini observed "It might do the puritans good to visit these shadows. They need to realize they aren't god's chosen."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Travel broadens the mind? But that implies they have minds to broaden. I thought theirs were completely closed off."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Cromwell seems to have a partly open mind."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril replied "I have been thinking of taking them on a tour of sorts. Iskandor and I could take them to see some real wonders tomorrow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "I thought that Cromwell was going to visit one of our temples tomorrow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, that will not take all day Prospero! If they visit early, we can go travelling immediately afterwards. Let them pass comments about sorcery, and we might even show them a thing or two." Her green eyes flashed, and I remembered her comment about breaking them like horses.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero replied "There is a service at dawn, in honor of the rising sun, a second at noon and a third at sunset. We could bring them in not long after the sunrise service."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Just be sure that you don't have lots of statues around." I commented. "It's likely to upset them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril compressed her lips, looking suddenly dangerous. "All the better. Show them your temple. If that offends them, then we shall arrange for their education."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Should you invite king Charles as well?" Amrik asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril thought for a moment. "Yes, perhaps we should. He is in need of some education as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Will this alienate them and make them angry, or will this make them open there eyes and see what bigots they've been?" I wasn't so sure that antagonizing them was a good idea.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril looked at me and smiled. "Danny, how would you train an animal? You expose it to the behavior you want, and you praise and reward that behavior. You expose it to situations where it exhibits unwanted behavior, and you scold it. A horse must be accustomed to the bridle and saddle, and to having someone sit upon its back before you can begin teaching it to respond to command. We will accustom them to things they find unpleasant, just like a horse is trained. None of you who are involved in the negotiations should come with us, we don't want them to blame you for their situation."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Iskandor remarked "We should discuss this tonight with Durathror to decide where we should lead them tomorrow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In another part of the garden, we spied tall angel like beings with large wings covered with white feathers. The beings all had shoulder length white hair, pale golden skins, and deep barrel chests. Their faces were human, but suffused with a haughty demeanor. They ignored us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is an interesting set of shadows!" Prospero exclaimed. "Do you think they can fly?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe, their chests look big enough for flight muscles." I replied. "It will depend on what they weigh, but I would guess they weigh much less than we do."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero remarked "I envy Liz and Rupert, being taken on a guided tour."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril answered "You two should be able to devise your own tour. These shadows are easy enough to shift through."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe I could take a few of you here tomorrow for some site seeing?" Enyil offered. "That is of course if you do not have any other plans, Amrik my love."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am sick of state occasions. We have a big one in a few days time when we marry, I think I would like to do a little wandering and exploring tomorrow, anything that will take me away from the palace, and where I will not be recognized."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then you and I will come here to go site seeing. We will take Prospero and Paula with us, and Danny and Nalini if they like. Just the six of us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik grinned "Just like old times. Let's do it!"}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next day we all rose early, breakfasted, and left the region we'd taken to calling the thirty one aethyrs. Nalini and I went with Prospero, Paula, Enyil and Amrik. Liz and Rupert were doing a similar tour, but in company with Durathror and Ra'anor who would also be training them. I'm not sure whether Rupert actually realized he was going to receive some fundamental training.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One day is not sufficient to do more than touch the surface, since we could spend little more than half an hour in each one. I think you can imagine spending only half an hour in each of the world's capital cities, and you will begin to understand the magnitude of the problem. Nalini and I resolved to journey back there at a later date and spend some time just holidaying and exploring.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Each of the aethyrs is different, with different sentient creatures living there, and quite different landscapes. I have no idea whether what we saw holds true for the entire shadow, or just for the parts we visited. After all, our own shadow earth has quite different landscapes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Each shadow making up the thirty one aethyrs passes through some of the others. If you visit a point of intersection, anyone with a little guidance and training can shift between the shadows, without a torc. Even Amrik had no trouble detecting the intersecting shadows and moving between them. The denizens of these shadows can move freely between them at these points of intersection, and trade and travel between the aethyrs is frequent.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The intersection points are relatively stable, in that they have mostly remained in the same place for hundreds of years. However, some intersections drift slowly around, others fade out, and new ones form. Each intersection is between only two shadows, and people must travel from intersection to intersection if they wish to move between three or more shadows.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Each species has its own culture and civilization, but trade and travel have tended to promote similarities between all civilizations. Most of them are friendly with all the others, but there are a few that do not get on well with certain others. I have no idea of the reasons though. People told us there had been wars in the past, and that some areas were dangerous even now, but most people seemed to think that wars were slowly becoming a thing of the past.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Magic (not sorcery, I'll get to that later) is well known, and well practiced. It does have a large amount of nonsense attached, as people build up recipes of what seems to work without ever understanding why. Most of what we saw seemed to be restricted to simple illusions, and the aid of allies - elemental creatures that can influence the material world. They could start fires, transport messages long distance, move objects around, cause storms and so on.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 People wishing to learn magic must find a teacher, and then contact spirits, building up legions of allies upon which they could call for aid. The teacher's own allies would serve to locate and introduce others. None of us know what the allies receive in return for their help, and none of us are motivated to study magic to find out. People answered most of our questions freely, but were more guarded about the exact details of their magic. It could also be that most of them simply do not understand why things work. We might have to observe the interactions ourselves, and see what we can divine. Enyil suggested that there might be some emotional relationship between people and allies.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In our limited exposure to these shadows, it seemed that each person who practiced magic had to work out a library of diagrams and gestures with which they would make their desires known to their allies. For example, someone might draw a square, divide it into four rows of four squares each, and write a glyph into a number of the small squares. This might mean 'light the fire'. The magician would carry a collection of these with him or her, take out the one they wanted to use, expose it briefly to the air, and then what they wanted would happen. Others would make particular gestures with their hands to achieve the same results. Gestures were thought to be superior to diagrams.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They attach great significance to each of the glyphs, and their arrangements into various diagrams. Whole treatises had been written on particular spells, and whether one arrangement of glyphs worked better than others. No one seemed to understand that in reality all that was happening was the trained elementals recognized that a particular diagram meant they were supposed to perform a particular action.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Due to the reliance on magic, their technology is largely restricted to what could be done by muscle power and simple machines. That suggests to me that there should be a class of slaves hidden away somewhere, but we saw no evidence of slaves. It may be that their allies serve that function, or there may be caste/class distinctions with certain castes providing the raw muscle power.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 However, travelers from other shadows, -the outside- as they term it, keep adding in bits of technology. The civilizations we visited had a sort of renaissance feel to them - people were open to new ideas, everyone we encountered seemed to have some form of education, and ideas were flowering. I am sure the multiple cultures had much to do with that. The people we met simply accepted that some of us looked different from them, while some were curious about our own backgrounds.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The term sorcerer is reserved for those like us who could cross outside the thirty one aethyrs, and shift between any shadows, speak mind to mind as the Viharani do, or perform other acts from their own powers, without the need for allies. Sorcerers are accorded a great deal of respect, and I believe that many hope one day to become sorcerers themselves. The practice of magic however, acts to inhibit the development of their own powers, because instead of exercising and developing your own powers, you become diverted into the search for compliant allies, leaving your own powers stunted and dormant. Well, most people back home have that problem too.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The first aethyr we visited, the one with the garden restaurant, has a mild Mediterranean climate, and is populated mainly by humans. We did not take a native tour guide, so we do not know how they designated the different aethyrs, but we do know that it wasn't by linear proximity as we traveled. We simply looked for the closest we had not visited, and then shifted there.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next was cooler and drier, with soaring snow-capped mountain peaks and dark pine forests. The native sentient species here was humanoid, but with blue gray skins, bald heads with a crest of colored bone, and retractable claws on their hands. Despite their rather fearsome appearance, they were friendly toward us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next was tropical, with greenish skies, small landmasses and lush vegetation. There were many of the Byroni here, but this was not their home shadow. The native sentient race was amphibious, and looked something like an ape crossed with a crocodile. They stood about five feet or one and a half meters high on their hind legs, had tough leathery hide like a crocodile, and came complete with tail about three meters long. Instead of a jaw filled with teeth, there was an elongated beak. We found them polite, but other people had commented that they weren't very friendly towards humans, preferring the company of the Byroni.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Another shadow had pale yellow skies, was excessively hot and humid with lush vegetation. There were many highly perfumed flowers with bright colored petals. One in particular was over a meter in diameter, with huge fleshy blood colored petals and central pollen stalk that towered three or four meters high and was covered with yellow and orange powder. This shadow was the home of the Byroni, along with a number large insect like creatures including dragon flies with two meter wingspans and a squat jeweled creature about the size of a tank that preyed on everything else and spun webs like spiders.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Another one had pale pink skies and sheer cliffs and crags. Even the yellow vegetation had thorns like cacti. This one was the home of the angel like creatures we had spied the day before.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Another one was cold enough for permanent snow cover, and consisted of a number of low mountains; the native species resembled polar bears crossed with gorillas. There was a ski run near where we arrived, we could see the lifts and skiers in the distance.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Another shadow was stranger than I expected, almost all the vegetation was crystalline cacti of one hue or another. The ground was littered with shards that made walking treacherous, and threatened to cut unprotected feet. Brightly colored fungi grew on the fallen shards, orange ear shapes, yellow and red toad stools, luminous blue penis shapes, dark green trumpet shapes and many more. The sky was silver mother of pearl. The sentient species here was an intelligent land snail with a conical shell one and a half meters high. They possessed eyestalks and four tentacles that could be used like hands and fingers.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Another shadow had really pale blue skies and deep rust red soil. The landscape seemed fairly flat, with only low rolling hills. The vegetation was bushes and shrubs with dark green fleshy leaves, and tall straggling trees with thin bluish needle like leaves that grew in clumps on the bone white branches. We had arrived near a town, though at first sight it did not look like a town. The buildings were hollowed out from the ground, and all that could be seen on the surface were signs that indicated the building entrances. Some more imposing buildings also had hollowed out boulders to serve as their entrances. The sentient race from this shadow looked semi human, but their skins were a deep purple color. Some parts of their bodies like their heads and backs were encrusted with brightly colored scales that formed intricate patterns. They added to the effect by wearing harnesses encrusted with gems. Their eyes were compound eyes like those of an insect, and their teeth were sharp and pointed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Yet another shadow was dry and warm. The area we arrived in was hard baked yellow sand, weathered mountains, hills and the like. Reddish spiny cacti grew here and there, along with a barrel shaped tree that was wider than it was high. A nest of branches grew from the top almost like a crown, and the red foliage was dotted with green flowers. Nearby was a small town nestled into a cliff, though some of the dwellings sprawled across the floor of the canyon. The people resembled frill necked lizards two meters high, though they walked upon their hind legs all the time.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I know we missed a lot, there just wasn't time to cover everything. One item we know we missed was a mile high waterfall, where the ocean of one shadow intersected and poured into the sky of another. In another there were supposed to be beautiful crystal caves, we were given directions, but it would have taken several hours to reach them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There are more humanoids than non-humanoids in the thirty one aethyrs, but that does not mean the humanoids form an alliance against the non humans. The towns are usually mixtures of many of the sentient races. Nalini and I decided we would return, and take advantage of some of the holiday packages available to tourists.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were all to meet that evening at the same restaurant we'd eaten the night before. Durathror, Ra'anor, Liz and Rupert were already there.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey guys!" Liz called out "I could actually see different shadows, and shift between them! And so did Rupert!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Congratulations!" Well, it would have been easy here, but at least now they would have some understanding of what we did. "We'll make shadowshifters of you yet!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I know it's easy here, but I'm motivated to learn more now!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How about you Rupert?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Never in my wildest dreams did I ever think that such things existed. When you brought us from England to Aquilonia, I know you explained about parallel earths, but I never really appreciated what you were talking about. I only believed you because the scenery changed. As far as I knew, you were using magic and had tame demons to do your work for you. I have now seen these parallel earths with my own eyes, and I have moved between them. I know now it is a natural power that can be developed. I am not sure whether I should develop these powers, but I think I would like to."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror remarked "There are dangers in learning anything, and there are dangers in walking through shadows, but there are also dangers in living. We make it a rule never to travel by yourself until you are fully trained, always travel with someone who is fully trained."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What do you mean you're not sure if you should?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This idea is completely outside my expectations. People from my own er\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0 culture will think I am a witch or magician. You yourselves sometimes use the term sorcery to refer to the ability. All this worries me. But I believe I know you well enough to trust you. I have always wanted to travel to strange lands, to explore places. I have thought of traveling to the New World, and India, and perhaps Africa as well. If I can learn this, then I can travel places I have never been. I will also be able to do that while I am learning. This is a wondrous opportunity. It also means I will be able to spend time with the lady Elizabeth even after we all return home."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We all smiled at that, even Liz, though she looked slightly embarrassed.. Ra'anor observed "You have some exercises to practice, and you still have to try to find us in your dreams. But you will be able to perform some training with Liz."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Rupert, we'll drop in to visit you from time to time after you go home. You will see us again. And one day you will be able to visit us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik clapped him on the back. "I never thought I would learn, but here I am, starting to learn. I have no intention of being chained to the throne for the rest of my live, and this will give me the chance to travel without being recognized. And who knows, we might even do some good, hey?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert nodded, and replied seriously. "Your intervention will stop our civil war, will lead to our king being restored to the throne, and the end of the witch inquisition. You will have done much good in the England where I live. That is another reason for learning: perhaps I can do some good."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril arrived soon after, with all seven puritans following. "Iskandor will be along shortly." she announced. "Prospero, the lady Elaine insisted on riding, she claimed she was dressed for dinner, so she would not walk."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded "She has a very strong personality."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Mark the puritan, a tall thin minor noble in his mid thirties, sniffed. "It is not seemly for the king to go gallivanting around with some high bred whore." He probably intended it to be a whispered comment to his cronies, but with a translation spell operating, his comments were broadcast to the rest of the table.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero stood up, his gaze icy. "The lady in question is my mother. You will withdraw that remark, or you will die."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ulp! How in heaven's name did you hear that?" He stood, fear in his eyes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril cut in "You should learn to control your sinful thoughts Mark."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell interrupted, his words smooth, his voice raspy as ever. "We unreservedly withdraw that remark. The lady Elaine is a fine woman of noble character. Mark!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Mark was white. "I\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0 I\u224\'E0 withdraw my remarks" he stammered. "I\u224\'E0 spoke without thought\u224\'E0. I did not know\u224\'E0 the lady was your mother."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a derisive smile playing around Prospero's lips, and I knew he despised the groveling Mark. "Very well, I will accept your apology. But first, I would know why you should think that a lady accompanying your king should be a whore."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0 I\u224\'E0 It's just \u224\'E0"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sit down Mark!" Cromwell spat out. "And be quiet before you make matters worse!" He turned his gaze to Prospero. His eyes were steady. "Duke Prospero, the king is a married man, as are most of us here. We think it unseemly that a married man should be seen in the company of a woman who is not his wife unless her husband is also there. Mark has overstepped all bounds of common decency with his remarks. I will deal with him later."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero replied coldly "The lady Elaine is my mother, she was widowed seven years ago. She is probably the highest-ranking noblewoman in the kingdom, who better to partner a visiting king? I think all of you should think very hard about why you believe a well bred noble woman would ever behave improperly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell opened his mouth to say something, but Amrik cut him off. "Prospero, sit down. Mark has apologized, he can't help it if he is congenitally stupid." Prospero grinned and sat. The king continued "Cromwell, it seems to me that you puritans are plagued by lustful thoughts. You do not spend enough time with women, you regard them merely as receptacles of your lust. As a consequence, if you see a man with a woman, you immediately jump to the conclusion that sex is the only thing they have on their minds. Has it occurred to you that you are guilty of judging others by your own thoughts? You need to learn that they are people just like men, though they think a little differently. There is no reason why a man should not have as many female friends as male friends. Only the base born think that all they have in common with women is sex."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah Cromwell, girls are people too, not sex objects!" Liz interjected.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell pursed his lip, but nodded. "We have tried to purge all sinful thoughts from ourselves, and devote ourselves as our heavenly father directs, but it seems that the more we try to avoid sinful thoughts, the more they plague us. You are quite right that women should not be treated as objects, but equals in the sight of god. We teach this, but many of us still have trouble putting it into practice."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril interrupted "Maybe we should bring your wives here. Your problems stem from trying to fight or ignore these thoughts; you only make them stronger. But you also give them strength because you avoid women, you do not know how to be friends with them. And instead of struggling with your sinful thoughts, accept that they have happened, and move onto something else. Do not give them strength. Perhaps you need some more lessons?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Your majesty, if it please you, we have had enough lessons for one day, we must still digest them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So what happened to you guys today?" Paula asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We have been sight seeing, and learning lessons." Imladril replied. "Lord Cromwell, will you tell the others about your day?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked a little non-plussed. "It has been quite an eventful day. I have seen with my own eyes these parallel earths of which you speak, and I have been able to walk into one or the other as I choose. I now know that with training I can do what you others do. Some among us are terrified at the prospect. We all know now it is not magic or demon helpers, but a skill that we all can learn. I can never look at god's creation in quite the same light, for now I know that all around us here are other earths, and that there are those who can travel at will between them. The safest room, the securest dungeon is no longer secure. I am not afraid though, I believe that god has shown me these things either to teach us something, or to open opportunities to us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very few people have learned the skills to travel between shadows." Imladril interrupted. "You are in little danger from strangers, and no danger from us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "I just hope you bear us no ill will for bringing you here in the first place."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I bear none of you any ill will." Cromwell spoke slowly. "I am not happy that I have been kidnapped, but I have decided that god has a purpose in this. I would like to think that we can teach you, but I fear that you are teaching us." He sighed, took a swallow of water. There was a wary look in his eyes that made me think he was telling us what he thought we wanted to hear. Well, we would just have to hold him to his statements.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He continued "This morning we visited one of your churches. There were those among us who called it a Temple of Mammon, and accused you all of being heathens or foul demon worshippers. But I took the trouble to listen to the priest with an open mind; many of the things he said were in accord with Jesus' teachings. There are also differences, far worse than Catholics I might add. But I have kept Duke Prospero and Earl Danny's words in mind, namely that Jesus came to our earth and taught things appropriate to the culture he found there; but to worlds with different backgrounds he came under different names and taught what was appropriate to the cultures there. This is a discomforting thought, but in god all things are possible. I would prefer to believe that Jesus is Jesus in all cultures, but your history includes no Hebrews. Either you need us as missionaries to bring you the word of god, or you have your own. This whole topic discomforts me, we have much soul searching to perform\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Lord Cromwell," I interjected "It could also be that god intends you to learn things from other cultures, and so realize that the message Jesus delivered was spiritual milk to spiritual babes, and couched in a language appropriate to the culture and the times. You received the truth, but not the whole truth, simply that portion of the truth was given to the Hebrews and Greeks of that age. He has come to other earths under different names, and taught them what is appropriate to them. I believe that you could lean things from Aquilonia, and you could teach them things. If you would be a missionary, you must also realize that you do not have all the truth, but only a portion that Jesus gave you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He managed to smile weakly. "It is that idea that is the most discomforting. But the apostle Paul does write of giving spiritual milk to spiritual babes. It is galling to think that we are still considered babes." The he looked more stern. "Young man, if I had not seen with my own eyes that these parallel earths exist, I would not countenance this idea for a moment! You have Jesus in your history, as we have him in ours. Yours could be an imposter, or yours and ours are the same son of god. If we accept this latter, then it is possible he also came to Aquilonia. Aquilonia has no Hebrews, if Jesus came, then he would phrase his message differently.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But I must also consider our recent actions, where we lacked compassion, and cannot claim to have acted as true Christians. The fact that we have been led astray makes me doubly wary of your words and ideas, but at the same time, I must check them against my bible. To my chagrin I find that where I check, your words are right, and mine own are wrong. I cannot trust mine own initial reactions to your words and ideas, I must investigate them first. And so, even though I have today encountered much that discomforts me, I have not rejected anything out of hand. I will condemn nothing, except where it is clearly proscribed in my bible. However, I may still condemn what I see, after due consideration."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Congratulation Lord Cromwell, it takes a man to admit to being wrong. We all make mistakes, if we do not learn from them, we are doomed to repeat them." I replied. "What sort of things have you encountered which you disapproved of?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would say that the religion of Mithras is pagan, and a blasphemous parody of Christianity, but if I accept that Jesus might have been born in your world as Mithras, then there is little that the priest told me that contradicts my bible. Mithras was the sacrificial bull, Jesus was the sacrificial lamb. You partake of wine, which represents the blood of Mithras, and the covenant between your people and your god, we partake of wine and bread, representing the blood and body of Jesus, and the new covenant. Mithras fights against the evil one; Mithras taught many things that echo the words of Jesus. Last week I would have said that to claim that both are the same son of the living god was blasphemy, today I must admit that it may have pleased god to send his son to your people. But tell me Earl Danny, how is it you know so much of our scriptures?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I smiled. "It's really quite simple. Prospero, Amrik and the others are from Aquilonia, but Nalini, Paula, Liz and myself are from an earth like yours, and we are Christian. We three are anglican, Liz is catholic. Our world had an English civil war, but it was never as severe as in yours. If that causes you trouble, consider, in our world, the English civil war was over three hundred years ago, and Jesus was born two thousand years ago. As far as I am concerned, the same Jesus was born in your world and in ours, except that he was born earlier in ours. So we have no trouble with the concept that he also came to Aquilonia as Mithras fifteen hundred years ago."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell shook his head. His friend Matthew was nodding, as if our conversation made sense to him, and echoed things he had turned over in his mind. "I too find it disagreeable to consider that Jesus could have been born anywhere else. But I have convinced myself that if god saw fit to create parallel earths, and arrange similar histories on some of them, then he could also arrange for Jesus to be born in each one. But if Jesus could be born in other worlds, what of the rest of us? In your English civil war, was there a king Charles?" We nodded. "Was there also an Oliver Cromwell, and a Matthew Carfax?" I nodded again. Liz had said that she thought some of the names were different, that the Earl of Essex had a different surname, but I wasn't about to split hairs. "Would they be the same people?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell added "I would also like to know what happened in that war. Would you say that your Oliver Cromwell was the same as me?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I gave them an honest answer. "Probably not. The soul of that Oliver Cromwell has gone on from there. I know that if we accept that Jesus was born in several earths, then it could be possible for each of us to be born again also. But why? For Jesus there is good reason. For us, would god arrange matters so that events happen again, and give us another chance to get it right? It is a tempting thought, but I would prefer to believe that we are not them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew commented "There is no biblical basis for being born in another body, or have we missed something?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "As far as I know, Jesus never made any pronouncement to the effect that these events will happen to you when you die. He always spoke in parables, and of course parables can be misinterpreted." I wasn't going to make any pronouncements about reincarnation to these puritans. "No where in the bible does Jesus ever firmly shut the door on being reborn, nor does he open it. But there are some passages you can consider. In the old testament, god makes two pronouncements: the first is that the soul that sins will be punished, and none other; the second is that punishment for the sinner will be visited unto the seventh generation. If you take the usual interpretation that the second means the children and grandchildren, then the second conflicts with the former. If you believe that being reborn is possible, then the second would mean that your punishment will follow you for seven rebirths. I merely suggest that as something to be investigated. Another one that comes to mind is where they ask Jesus about a man born blind, and ask if it is because of his parents' sins, which is the usual interpretation, or because of his own sins. Now the only way he could be punished for his own sins by being born blind would be to have sinned prior to his birth, that is, in a previous life. Jesus does not rule out either possibility."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew quoted "'In his case, neither, but that the works of god may be made manifest.' You are right, it proves nothing. He leaves the door ajar, neither closing it nor opening it. That must have been intentional, perhaps to do with spiritual milk?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I quoted back "'There are more things in heaven and earth Horatio, than are dreamed of in your philosophy.' We do the best we can with the information we have available to us. We try to promote peace and harmony instead of war and suffering."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We have much to think about." Cromwell sighed. "But you still haven't answered what happened in your civil war."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, I daresay Liz can tell you more than I can, but Cromwell eventually captured the king, and had him beheaded. Cromwell himself died a year or so later, probably of poison. His son briefly succeeded him as lord protector, but by then the people grew tired of the puritan ways, and clamored for Charles the younger to ascend to the throne. I am not sure, but I believe that Cromwell's wife and children were thrown into the streets and died penniless, and his son may have been executed for treason or insurrection." Cromwell looked downcast. "Lord Cromwell, we would spare you that if we can."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz chose not to correct me "From what I've seen of your England, it isn't the same anyway. My impression is that it's been a lot worse than ours, so the future might be much worse as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell nodded, looking into the distance. "Young man, had you come to me a week ago with these tales, I would have thought you an arrogant blasphemer, or perhaps mad. Now I must consider that you might be right. We have much to think about. We have tried to do what is best for England, but with hindsight we should have done differently. We have not promoted peace and harmony."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At this point king Charles, the duchess Elaine on his arm, and prince consort Iskandor arrived. Charles nodded to all of us, except Amrik, whom he embraced, and Enyil, from whom he accepted a kiss on the cheek. Lady Elaine bowed to king Amrik, nodded to the rest of us, then finally hugged and kissed her son. By this time, Amrik had stood and rounded the table. He picked Elaine up in a bear hug exclaiming "Mother!" and swung around before setting her down beside king Charles again.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Lah your majesty, I am not your mother, though I would certainly be proud to have you as my son." She was grinning widely.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik explained at a slightly lower tone "I lost my entire family years ago. Duke Leto and yourself have been my father and mother since then. Now please be seated, I am hungry!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik had reserved two seats beside him for Charles and Elaine; he seated Elaine beside himself and the king next to Elaine. This meant that Nalini sat beside king Charles. Iskandor sat beside Enyil. Amrik ordered a different banquet from the night before, but added "I would like a nice roast leg of venison or something similar, some good crusty bread, and a jug of good brown ale if you have some."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am sure we can sir. We have ninety eight varieties of beer, twenty seven of them would qualify as brown ale. I shall bring several jugs sir."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero leaned over "Bring several different types if you will. And some lager for Rupert here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As the waiter walked away, Amrik explained to Charles "Let the others enjoy their gourmet delicacies, I am a roast meat man."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One waiter brought jugs of ale, a second brought bottles of wine, while a female waiter brought jugs of water and deposited them near the puritans. Cromwell exclaimed "Ah, good. We do not drink wine or ale, only water."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik shook his head. "You deny yourselves the simple pleasures of life."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell smiled back "Your majesty, some would say you deny yourself the pleasures of life by ordering roast meat instead of gourmet delicacies."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew added piously "We wish to avoid temptation to sin, and wine befuddles the senses."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah Matthew, Cromwell. 'Take a little wine for thy stomach's sake' as St. Paul said to St. Timothy. Even Jesus turned water into wine, and drank wine. Anything to excess is bad for you, but a little wine is good."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew shook his head. "Did Jesus really drink wine?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, there is a passage in one of the gospels, I'm not sure which one right now, where he says something like "John comes drinking water, and eating locusts and wild honey, and they say he is a holy man. I come drinking wine and eating with sinners and they condemn me as a drunkard and a sinner" or something like that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey! Enough!" Amrik growled. "Let's eat tonight without getting into fights over religious interpretation of scripture."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We all agreed, though Matthew added "We will look for that passage tonight."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Much of the evening's discussion centered around what everyone had done that day. King Charles and Lady Elaine had accompanied Iskandor, Imladril and the Puritans on a journey through shadow. All had observed marvels, all had seen things they had never imagined. Neither Charles nor Elaine had much interest in learning the process of shadow shifting, but they had enjoyed their walk, and expressed interest in other guided tours.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think all the military minds at the table were well aware of the implications of shadow shifting on a battle where troops might sneak by completely unseen, to emerge behind enemy lines and launch an attack from an unexpected quarter. Hints were dropped, but little concrete was said.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritans had received a few shocks as well, which explained why they were subdued this evening. Thomas had made some nasty remarks to Imladril, and for his pains she had transformed him into a pig, saying "You behave like a pig. I ask god to transform you into one right now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Fear does wonders to clarify the mind, and crystallize perceptions. The other puritans had stopped short of calling Imladril a witch, fearful that they might suffer the same fate. Imladril had patiently explained the difference between magic and what she had done, maintaining that her power came from god. It was probably touch and go, but I believe Imladril had used some of her powers to influence the puritans into acceptance of her statements. She transformed Thomas back after perhaps half an hour.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Thomas as pig had been acutely aware of everything going on around him, and of his vanished humanity. Imladril had made some pointed remarks about roast pig for lunch, and raised the issue of whether eating the pig was cannibalism since it had once been Thomas. It was only when the Puritans reached a consensus that they would not eat Thomas because they felt it was cannibalism that Imladril explained that she and Iskandor were vegetarian, and felt the same about killing anything for food. Needless to say, Thomas was mightily relieved when he was transformed back.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril had forced them to confront other ethical dilemmas as well, causing all the puritans to re-evaluate their attitudes. She had challenged them to prove any statement she disagreed with, and often had gone on to demonstrate the absurdity of their position. The result was that tonight they were no longer quite so self righteous. They had not lost their religious fervor, but now realized that their zeal had been misplaced or misguided.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 King Charles proved quite sociable, even agreeing to dispense with titles away from the kingdom. He could talk at length on many subjects, and had a knack of seeming interested in what ever the topic of conversation was.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritans, off the topic of religion, proved friendly; some were even talkative. I think they had realized that we were the hand that fed them, and the wisdom of not biting that hand had slowly sunk in. Simon, the other merchant puritan, had even expressed some interest in learning more about shadow shifting. The others tried to quieten him, but he persisted "If it is sanctioned by god, then I see no reason why not! There is nothing in the bible about it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hmph!" Matthew snorted. "If god meant for man to travel to these parallel earths, we would be able to do so from birth! God has not vouchsafed us to know of it, so it should be forbidden!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And if god had meant us to ride in carriages, he would have given us wheels?" I asked. Well, some of them laughed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror commented "It's a case of milk for babies and solid food for adults. My own people all know how to do this, but yours can learn."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril added pointedly "If you would forbid it, then how will you get home?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell shook his head. "I do not condemn those of you who know how, but I do not think that my people should learn. It would be impossible to hold prisoners, no one would be safe inside the walls of their houses. God has reason for not teaching us about it, I do not intend to allow anyone to learn!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles commented "Meseems that it could be a danger to rulers, it would make the assassin's task that much easier, and would aid any criminal activity. But should we talk about this back in England, no one would believe us, nor is there anyone there to teach us. I think it best we do nothing, and say nothing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril replied "Most people have no idea that other earths exist. Normally we do not even tell people that we have this ability. We very rarely teach anyone. I am not entirely happy that you people know that we have this ability. But that cannot be undone. If any of you wish to learn, you must prove yourselves worthy. I issue you all with a challenge. You know what we look like." She indicated her brother Durathror, her consort Iskandor, and Durathror's consort Ra'anor. "Find us in your dreams. The first steps of learning take place there. God has allowed you to know of our abilities, if he lets you find any of us in your dreams, we will teach you, but not otherwise."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell looked grim for a moment, but nodded. "You will not teach any of us, nor publicize your abilities back in England? Then I believe I have my wish. If god has reason for any of us to learn, he will indicate that in our dreams." He sighed. "I thought my life was difficult before you people appeared in it!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror laughed. "Cheer up, when we return you all to England, we hope things will be more peaceful, and less difficult."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The other discussion we all became involved with was about choosing people for parliament, and how to form a government. Everyone agreed that the king should be the head of government, with the position passing by birth. The king should be active, not a figurehead, with powers more like an American President. Charles was not entirely happy with his powers being curbed, but the puritan faction did agree, along with the rest of us. After some discussion, Charles languidly waved a hand and acquiesced.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The House of Lords consisted of one member for each noble house, usually the head of the house, or his nominated representative. The idea of political parties was unknown to them, but they did know of factions. Everyone seemed reasonably happy with the idea that the faction commanding the majority of seats would control which laws were passed. The idea that parliament should sit for several weeks each month, and for most months of the year, was novel to the English. Past kings had summoned parliament only when they wished to raise taxes, and dissolved parliament again when the tax was raised. King Charles had tried to govern for eleven years without ever convening parliament. However, once they realized that the parliament could propose laws of its own, but which still needed the king's approval, the puritans supported the idea, and Charles grudgingly came round when Amrik came out strongly in support.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The main problem was the House of Commons. In this shadow England, only high-ranking officials, rich merchants and the like could be chosen. Nalini, myself, Paula and Liz favored the approach we were familiar with, where seats were declared, and anyone could put themselves up for election by all qualified voters in the electorate. We wanted to enfranchise all citizens over the age of eighteen, except for criminals and the insane. That idea did not gain a lot of support.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik, Prospero and the others claimed that this was not technically feasible, arguing that trying to coordinate voting across the country and trying to make electorates roughly the same size was too difficult. They favored the idea of local councils elected by adult men and women. The councils would have higher levels over them, several levels in fact. Each level would choose a representative for the higher level. The highest level would be the House of Commons itself.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritans supported the basics of the hierarchical councils, though they used terms like boroughs, parishes, shires and counties. None of them were particularly concerned with the number of electors in each electorate, but none of them wanted to give women the vote. Cromwell wanted the voters restricted to godly men, leaders of church congregations, while Matthew and the other puritans were prepared to allow the male head of each household to vote. None of the puritans wanted Catholics or Jews to be able to vote.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We argued long about who should be enfranchized. Charles supported the rest of us in allowing Catholics and Jews the vote; Cromwell backed down in the face of determined opposition, although I believed he would try again once he was home.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 none of the English, including the king, were prepared to budge on giving women the vote. Their premise was that women were weak, hysterical, and too soft to make decisions of this importance.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What about Queen Elizabeth?" Liz demanded. "Was she weak and hysterical?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 King Charles observed "There are some who would say she was too emotional for good government. She never married and produced heirs, she failed her duty there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And you would not be king if she had!" Nalini spat back. "I believe there would be fewer wars if women ran the country, we are more mature, we don't play games out of macho pride, we know how to manage finances better than most men."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "If you check your scripture, you will find that women played an equal part in the congregation."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The shepherds were always men!" Matthew countered. "All the important decisions were taken by men, not women."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Even Charles weighed in "A queen may rule in her own right only when there are no close male relatives to be made king. The bloodline is important. If the head of a noble house dies, and has no close male relatives, then his wife may become the head of the house. But there must be a male to step into the role, or the house dies. For once Cromwell and I are in agreement, women should not have the vote!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The lady Elaine commented "My son Prospero is now the head of our house, and bears the title duke. But should he die without issue, I become head of the house, I will choose who will be the next duke. There would be only one person in the kingdom who could naysay my choice, and that is his majesty king Amrik. I believe that women know just as much about politics as men do, and they should be allowed to vote. We are not second class citizens. It is true that some women concern themselves only with gossip, making clothes and babies, but there are as many men who concern themselves with drinking, fighting or tilling the soil of their estate. I think you English should reconsider."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero began to smooth things over. "This is our society, not yours. Here women are the equals of men. In England this is obviously not yet the case. The solution has to be one that works for you, but you should be wary of forbidding women the vote. Your society will change, they will demand it eventually."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That wasn't the last word, but suffrage for women united the king and the puritans enough for them to agree broadly on the hierarchical modal that Amrik and Prospero had proposed. Nalini and I ended up taking copious notes about how things would work so that Prospero's scribes could write them up. Surprisingly, several issues marked for discussion during the next week had been resolved.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                 ###}}