{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Cambria-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi284\ri-597\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32\b1\i0 Chapter}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  7}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The day of the wedding dawned clear, which the more superstitious saw as an omen for a long and happy marriage. There was a festive feel to the city, there had been for the past few days as banners and bunting were erected, and street performers strutted their stuff. We'd seen jugglers, dancers, mime artists, minstrels and musicians, clowns, assorted more bizarre circus acts, street theatre and more.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Today would be a long day for many. Bakers had been up since midnight baking festive cakes for the day, chefs and cooks had been preparing for the feasts since before dawn. Stall owners were setting up at choice points along the route of the procession, and anywhere that crowds were likely to gather. They were selling everything from souvenir plates, mugs, spoons and small flags and the like to drinks like beer, wines, flavored water and juices to foods like dozens of different sweet buns and donuts, many varieties of savory food including things wrapped in pastry, sausages in buns, noodle dishes, and things on sticks, including char-grilled lizard on a stick.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Workers were putting the finishing touches to stands and barricades along the route, finalizing decorations, arranging flowers, sweeping streets and making sure that everything was spot on.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The logistics of the event was staggering. Those in the know estimated that the population of Tarantia had more than doubled, which would put a considerable strain on its resources. There were several thousand guests who would attend the wedding ceremony and the feasts. Food was needed for two feasts, but in addition crowd control was needed for possibly half a million people, along with food for anyone who did not bring it from home, and accommodation for the ones from out of town.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Some had predicted that food prices would rise during the week before and after the wedding. However, the seneschal lord Amalrik had arranged weeks in advance for additional supplies to be brought in. Several grassed areas in the city had been used to pasture animals that would be used for meat during the festivities. Some warehouses were currently overflowing with foodstuffs to the point that some merchants had complained the glut was driving prices down.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The wedding party would ride in procession through most of the city's main streets on their way from the palace to the temple, and again afterwards on their way to the feast. Nalini and I were one of a fairly large group of nobles who would ride in that procession. We would be part of the main group that would form the bodyguard. Liz and Paula would ride with us as part of our entourage.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The palace guests were also to ride in the procession, so king Charles, as one of nine visiting monarchs, would ride behind the main nobles who formed the bodyguard. In a surprising gesture of solidarity, he had invited the puritans to ride with him as part of his entourage. Cromwell had accepted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The breakfast room was busier than usual as many guests arose near dawn to ensure they were all ready for the procession. Cromwell, Matthew, Thomas and Stephen were already eating at one table, while Robert, Tobias and James were eating at another. We waved to both tables, but went to sit with Imladril and Iskandor.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They both smiled at us. Imladril commented "Well, once upon a time, you two would ride in our entourage. Now you have your own."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's all a bit new, it hasn't sunk in yet." Nalini replied. "We'll be going to visit our estate next week, you must come with us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you, we will. We'll be looking forward to it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We went to grab some food. Rupert and Liz walked in together. We knew she had spent the night in his room, but neither of us passed comment. "We're you sitting?" Liz asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "With Imladril. Grab some food and join us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We will!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When they did join us, Imladril asked "Sleep well last night?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes!" Liz suddenly giggled, Rupert looked a little red and flustered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril replied "We're glad you both had a good night. We approve."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert's eyebrows rose. Imladril reached out to pat his hand, commenting "Our cultures are different, we see nothing to be embarrassed about. What is important is that both of you enjoyed yourselves. Now Prince Rupert" she changed the topic "I believe that today you will ride as part of the escort for King Charles?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert swallowed, looked uncomfortable, but mastered himself. "Er... yes, I am his majesty's nephew, I should form part of his escort. With whom else should I ride?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Exactly. Are you satisfied with what you will wear, or would you prefer something different, perhaps more ceremonial?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I will have my military uniform in England's colors, and my sword. At home I would probably wear a breastplate and helm, but I have been informed that breastplates and helmets are bad form."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right then. I had in mind that as a prince, you might prefer velvet and lace, and perhaps a crown of sorts?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert smiled and shook his head. "I am not a king to wear a crown, nor am I comfortable in ribbons and lace. I am a simple military man, I am happier in military style clothes. But thank you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril turned to Liz and asked "Liz, are you happy with what you will wear? You will be riding as part of Danny's and Nalini's entourage, you should probably have a necklace and tiara to wear. Or will you dress like Nalini in a military uniform and wear a sword?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz laughed, shaking her head. "I wouldn't know how to use one! I won't be wearing a dress though, I'm riding a horse. Is jewelry okay?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril nodded "I can loan you some jewelry and a tiara."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Iskandor remarked "Durathror and I went collecting yesterday. We even found the crown of England for king Charles. The puritans do not know that yet though, but Charles is very happy about that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They are held under lock and key in the tower of London. How did you\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0" Rupert's voice trailed off as he realized. He nodded "You walked in from another earth, bypassing all the guards, didn't you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Iskandor nodded. "Yes, once we knew where we had to go, it was easy. A piece of bread, is that what you people say?" Liz corrected him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A little later Nalini and I went to visit the puritans for a chat. We were just a little concerned that they might spoil the proceedings. I asked Cromwell what he thought of the planned proceedings, and whether he would be attending the marriage ceremony.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked from Nalini to me before replying. His eyes were wary, guarded. "Today we represent England before the people of Aquilonia." He spoke slowly. "King Amrik has asked us to wear the colors of England instead of our usual garb, and we have agreed. Most of us are military men, we will wear plain military uniforms. We will ride as part of the entourage of king Charles. He is our king, it is fitting that we do so. We will attend the ceremony, and we will not pass comment on what we observe. I know that the religion of Mithras is not Christian, I have decided we should wash our hands on trying to convert Aquilonians to the true faith. There are similarities with Christianity, and there are differences. On whether Mithras is also Jesus I make no judgement. I will admit that the possibility exists, and agree that god deals appropriately with different parallel worlds, but determining the truth or otherwise of that assertion is beyond us at present. We will not condemn the Aquilonians as pagans, nor will we condemn their religion as a travesty and a parody of Christianity. Is this what you wished to hear?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Coming from you, Lord Cromwell, that is a magnanimous statement..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...We were worried that you or some of the others might see reason to disrupt the ceremonies by condemning the worshippers or participants..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...We believe that in the past you have been too quick to condemn that which is different..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He managed a slight smile. "In the past we have been too quick to condemn, that is true. But I do not say that I approve of anything I have seen here, only that we will neither condemn nor pass judgement."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Have you considered that god might want you to see the religion of Mithras so that you might learn that there are different paths that lead in the same direction? That he might want you to conclude that you should be more even handed with Catholics?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You labor that point somewhat, earl Daniel."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Perhaps like my biblical namesake, I have a vision of what is right, and I am horrified by some of the evil slanders and practices you puritans are responsible for."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Many of the fears you have about Catholics are really to do with the fear that they might show allegiance to Spain. That may have been true in Queen Mary's day, and possibly the early stages of Queen Elizabeth's reign but it certainly is not true today."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And many of the spiritual points will not be won by condemning them. You lose the argument if you must resort to condemnation or shouting. And besides, has it crossed your mind that you might also be wrong on some of them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The political and spiritual points are all important." A look of amusement flashed across his face. "Has it crossed your mind that I might be right, and you might be wrong? No, I see it has not. You can be quite infuriating." He sighed. "Since meeting you, it has crossed my mind that I might be wrong. It has also crossed my mind that we need to educate them that they might learn the errors of their ways."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We don't mean to be infuriating." I replied. "It's an evolving process; where we come from, it took hundreds of years for religious thought to develop from the stage where you are to the stage where we are. Of course it must be hard for you, many of the concepts are foreign to your culture at present. One that I think is important for you to consider is whether you are losing sight of Jesus' message by concentrating on the form of its expression. Love your enemy, love your neighbor as yourself, do good to those who hate you, forgive others. These are important points, not whether Jesus is really present in the wafer at Eucharist. Who cares? Do you practice what Jesus taught, or do you merely follow the empty forms that have grown up after his death?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The look of amusement was back. "Some would say that Catholics are the ones who follow the empty forms. The doctrine of transubstantiation is wrong. It leads to many errors of doctrine and dogma, all of which are important..." He trailed off, staring into space. We waited for him to continue. Finally he roused himself and said "I think I see what you are driving at. The Catholic claim of transubstantiation causes them to claim magic from the host, this is wrong. We heatedly argue that the host is not the real presence, they heatedly argue it is. You argue that it does not matter, as long as they try to practice what Jesus taught." He shook his head. "I do not agree with you, but I think I finally understand your point enough to agree that you have a valid point. Scripture and the teachings of the Savior must be the most important considerations. Questions like the doctrine of transubstantiation are secondary issues, we must not let them distract us from following what Jesus taught us. You believe we are allowing them to distract us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We argue that you should not do more that simply agree to disagree on matters of religion. You should treat them the same as any others. Religious tolerance is essential, and that included treating Catholics, Jews and so on as equals in the sight of god, and equal under your laws. To do anything else and you become no better than Pharisees, who were too righteous to associate with sinners. Always, you must ask 'what would Jesus do in this situation?'"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell sighed. "There you go again, challenging us. When you put it in those words, it seems we should agree with you. Treating Catholics and Jews as equals goes against all our traditions, and our entire upbringing. I very much fear that you have been sent to show me how I can be better Christian."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If we can achieve that, then we will be happy. If we can make you a better Christian, then you will teach others. The benefits will flow throughout England and beyond."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Perhaps you think too highly of my influence." He smiled again. "I am considering everything you have said, I am also testing it against my bible. You have caused me to revise my opinions of some of our deeds, I am considering whether some of our attitudes should also be revised. I can promise no more."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I had to smile. He always had to be the leader. We could suggest, but he would evaluate and decide. It had obviously taken a lot out of him to admit he might have been wrong. "I believe our case will stand up under your scrutiny. The biggest obstacle is whether you can be open enough to give due consideration to our words. Someone who is worthy to be a leader and opinion maker will be open, and consider our words on their merits. I believe you are that sort of man." I thought of adding more about narrow minds, but didn't.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell looked at me appraisingly, then nodded. "There are many who are narrow minded, and would reject your words out of hand." He swept his hand to indicate his friends. "We are politicians, we are open minded enough to consider your words on their merits. Let me also reassure you that we will be gracious today. We are guests of king Amrik, we will not spoil his day for him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He left me with the distinct impression he would continue being gracious and agreeable until he returned to England. Once back, he would change his tune. This was where Prospero's guarantees, and our monitoring force would have a role to play.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Later, we collected in the palace courtyard in preparation for the precession to the temple of Mithras. The courtyard was crowded with nobles, horses, coaches and grooms. Most nobles would ride horses, the coaches were reserved for those too frail to ride. The coaches themselves were magnificent looking things, all polished wood, shiny metals and soft leather. None of them were enclosed, but had folding hoods like convertible cars that could be used during inclement weather. Most of them had two bench seats facing one another, a separate seat for the rider, and a base that curved up at both ends.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The horses were magnificent animals, with shiny coats, gleaming trappings and proud bearing. Many were large cavalry horses, tall and heavy, most of the rest were long legged slender thoroughbreds. There were some notable exceptions.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini, Paula and I were riding our own horses, brought by Imladril or Durathror some days before. There was an extra one for Liz. The horses themselves are large, designed to carry an armored man into battle. Their coats are striped with red and black tiger stripes. They are incredibly swift, and can easily outrun a cheetah, even when carrying a rider. They are quite impressive, but today the Viharani horses upstaged them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril and her escort were mounted on matched horses scarcely larger than ponies. These sure-footed horses were pure white, except for their manes and tails, which were the color of cloth-of-gold. Each horse had a single white horn that grew from its forehead, the sight of which caused much consternation amongst the Aquilonians.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were eight Viharani in all, comprised of four couples. I recognized Atlendor, Durathror's grandson, but not the other three. The Viharani were all dressed similarly in tartan kilts and cloaks, white lace fronted shirts, brown riding boots and swords. Their kilts were knee length; I know from past experience wearing a Viharani kilt that it is possible to ride a horse while wearing one. The puritans might be upset to see the women's knees while they were riding though. Imladril wore a crown that at first sight seemed to be cut-crystal, but then I realized by its glitter that it had been shaped from a single diamond. The women also wore jeweled Egyptian styled collars. The men contented themselves with jeweled clasps on their cloaks.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The four of us were dressed similarly in military style clothes with dark blue trousers, black riding boots, sky blue shirts and jackets that consisted of emerald green and black panels. With the gold braid they looked quite effective. Nalini wore her hair long with jeweled combs. Paula and Liz wore tiaras. That may sound odd, but most Aquilonian women wore military style clothes in their house colors, and jewelry.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The puritans were less conspicuous, dressed as they were in black riding boots, dark blue trousers, white shirts and crimson jackets. With swords at their hips, most of them looked like soldiers, with little save the length of their hair to distinguish them from the cavaliers. Both the puritans and the cavaliers were crowded around Imladril's party, inspecting their horses. Liz was there with Prince Rupert; the rest of us were standing with Imladril and Durathror.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Some touched the horses as if to see whether they were real. Rupert asked "Are they truly unicorns like in our legends?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror laughed. "They are truly unicorns, they may well be the stuff of your legends."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell looked at the nearest one appraisingly. "I always thought they were associated with magic and fairies."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew added "I heard tell that you needed a young virgin to capture one."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril laughed and shook her head. "That is all superstitious nonsense. These are like most other horses, though their horn makes them more dangerous. We breed them. The fairies of your legend are probably exaggerated tales of us, the Viharani. We have contact with many earths, though there are some we no longer visit because we are not welcome there anymore."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why are you no longer welcome?" Rupert asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Mainly due to Christian slanders." Imladril explained. "Christianity exists on many earths. Unfortunately there are many where it has taken a form similar to your puritans, and we are condemned as demons. Lord Cromwell, I believe we are the elves of your legends, but most of the stories told about us are completely untrue."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert was nodding, his eyes wide. Several others were looking at one another in surprise.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell cleared his throat. "Your majesty, I have been thinking that there is much about your people that reminds me of stories I have heard about elves. What god do you serve?" His voice was suddenly firm, stern.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We serve the same god you do, the creator of all that exists. Most of us are not Christians, but neither are we pagans nor heathens. Some of us like my brother Durathror do follow the Christian ways, but from another earth where we are accepted."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell almost did a double take at this. "You are a Christian, Prince Durathror?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am, but I suspect it is closer to your Greek Orthodox version. There are many earths Lord Cromwell, and there are as many if not more versions of Christianity. That may not please you, but that is how things are."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I know that is how things are. It has been my mission to reconcile those diverse faiths, and bring them all back to the truth our savior taught."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror raised an eyebrow at this pronouncement. " I do not subscribe to the view that my own version is right, and that every other version is wrong. I agree with Danny that it does not matter, because all those versions are probably wrong, including yours and mine. What is important is that we practice what Jesus taught, and show love and compassion to everyone." Durathror was suddenly steely eyed, staring back at Cromwell. He wagged a finger in Cromwell's face. "Have a care Lord Cromwell. God does not care whether you believe Jesus is really present in the host or not, not does he care about your doctrines and your dogmas! God cares and judges you by your deeds! You know that Jesus preached compassion and forgiveness, if you do not practice that, then he will judge you, and find against you! What a person believes is between them and their god. If it leads them toward the light, then good. If it leads them away from the light, then god will keep trying to guide them back toward the light. There are many paths toward god's light, just as Jesus said 'In my father's house there are many mansions.'" Durathror smiled "However, today is not a day for religious debate. If you wish to debate issues, then I am happy to oblige some other time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell's face had shown a gamut of emotions while Durathror spoke. He was silent for a moment, digesting Durathror's words. Finally he spoke. "Today is for king Amrik, and his bride to be. However, if you are willing, Prince Durathror, we will debate you." He gestured toward Nalini and me. "You are also welcome earl Daniel, lady Nalini, and anyone else here who is Christian. Earl Daniel has raised many points over the past few days, we have much to discuss. I do seek to know god's truth, I would welcome your opinions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A few moments later, the signal was given to mount up. King Charles walked out of a pavilion with several other kings. Behind him walked a page carrying a red cushion bearing a crown, and two burly guards provided by king Amrik. The king had a greeting and a polite word for each of us, and then he mounted his horse. The page handed him the crown, which he placed on his head.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was shock on several faces, puritan and cavalier alike. Cromwell started "You majesty! Surely that is\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is England's crown. You are correct lord Cromwell. Prince Durathror and prince Iskandor collected it last night. They had our permission, we hope you will not regard this as stealing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell swallowed before he replied "No your majesty, you are entitled to wear England's crown. Would I be correct in assuming that the guards were unaware that you required the crown?" He managed a smile. "No strong-room would be safe should criminals learn their powers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles smiled regally, enjoying Cromwell's discomfort. "We wrote a note to the effect that the crown was required for a state occasion by England's lawful king, and we signed and sealed it. We still possess the royal seal ring. The princes left that note in place of the crown. We believe this fulfills all legal requirements."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik and Enyil mounted their horses, then looked around the courtyard. We were all arranged in groups which would start one after the other in clockwise format. "All right! Let's ride!" Amrik bellowed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Six of the horse guards, dressed in gleaming breastplates, helmets and greaves led the procession. Each carried a tall standard with a colored piece of cloth about the size of a beach towel attached. Each standard was different. Amrik and Enyil rode side by side behind them, the king wearing his simple soldier's clothes, Enyil wearing her tartan. However, she wore trousers, instead of a kilt. Amrik wore a simple gold crown.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Behind them rode another six horse guards bearing standards, then there followed Prospero with his relatives and standard bearer, several other groups of nobles, then Nalini, myself, Paula and Liz, along with a horse guard bearing our standard; behind us rode the visiting kings and their entourages, with king Charles somewhere in the middle. There was even a flagpole with the flag of England, born by a horse guard; it looked a little incongruous because it was arranged to fly vertically from the pole, with metal stiffeners, whereas all the standards were designed to hang vertically from the tops of their poles.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Behind the visiting kings rode the lesser nobles of Aquilonia, which made me wonder what we were doing in front of the visiting kings.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think it means that you are somewhere in line for the succession." Paula suggested. "Everyone else here is one of the great houses, they all have a claim on the throne. I don't know how you managed to wrangle that though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, we saved Amrik's life several times, remember?" I suggested.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini was more thoughtful. "It could be that he trusts us enough to run the kingdom, it could be he wants to use us as a check on the power of the other great houses. Then again, maybe he really is that grateful."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were sounds of cheering from outside the palace gates. When we rode out a sea of faces stretching out around greeted us. Simple barricades had been erected to keep people from the road, and there were palace guards stationed along the route to ensure that people stayed on the correct side. I've seen parades before, but I have never been in them. We waved at the crowds from time to time, though none of us were sure whether we were supposed to. Prospero and Amrik did not wave, but seemed to nod to the crowds, though Prospero's mother did perform a good imitation of a royal wave.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our procession snaked its way down the hill through leafy suburbs toward the town center, and the main temple. We talked as we rode along, though it was sometimes hard to make ourselves heard.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula had one burning question. "Hey Liz, did you actually get .laid last night? Tell us about it!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Jeez! Don't I have any privacy? How'd you find out?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula sniggered "I could say walls have ears. You made just a little bit of noise there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini chuckled "Well Liz, it makes a change from you listening to us! You must have enjoyed yourself then. You don't have to tell us anything if you don't want to, Paula is just a sticky beak."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey! She found out about me and Danny, so why can't I get to hear about her and Rupert?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Seems to me you've already heard all you need!" I commented. "Liz, we may stir you a bit, but we're happy for you. Don't feel embarrassed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah! We all do it Liz" Paula shot back. "Hey, what's he like? Is he big?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula, can you be a bit more sensitive?" Nalini commented. "Liz, just ignore her."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Don't let her put you off tonight either!" I added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Huh! I might just not visit him tonight, then you won't hear nuthin', 'cos there'll be nuthin' to hear."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You could always take him back to your room. We won't listen." I responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, I can hear you guys well enough from my room."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, well, you'll be busy with Rupert, so you won't be listening to us, will you?" I countered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini sniggered "And we'll be preoccupied, we won't be listening to you! Hey, we all do it, so don't feel embarrassed about it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz sighed "I guess I'll never hear the end of it until I tell you mob. Well, it almost didn't happen, 'cos Rupert didn't think it was the right thing to do. But we went back to his apartment after dinner, and we were both talking and drinking a bit. We just sat and talked for quite a while actually. We weren't sitting that close, 'cos Rupert was being a gentleman, but I managed to wangle it so we were sitting side by side."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, we want to hear the juicy bits!" Paula exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well I ain't gonna tell ya!" Liz shot back.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Don't say anything Liz" Nalini countered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, it's okay, but I'm leaving out the juicy bits. Anyway, at some stage, he kissed my hand, and it just sorta developed from there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is that all!?" Paula sounded disappointed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, you guys all do it, I don't have to spell things out. Probably nuthin' different to what you and Prospero get up to."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I don't know - Prospero and I get up to some pretty wild things." Paula smiled suggestively.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, you didn't last night. If you could hear us, then we would have heard you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They were probably too busy listening to the entertainment!" It was my turn to snigger.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, do you want me to tell you about it or not?" Liz sounded almost indignant.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I thought you'd finished. You said you were leaving out the juicy bits."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, I haven't quite finished. He was quite enthusiastic until I got his pants off, then he went all shy. He is well hung Paula, but you ought to know that, 'cos you've seen him in the bath."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, did you have any misgivings when you got to that point?" Nalini asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Er\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0 yeah, I was feeling a bit nervous, but I'd already decided to go through with it unless he actually threw me out."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Which he didn't" Paula finished.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, but he did take some convincing. I had to show him how to use a condom too, he'd never even heard of them before."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So how was it?" Nalini asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She enjoyed it, she was squealing!" Paula supplied with a snigger.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula! Let Liz tell it." I reprimanded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sorry boss!" she almost threw me a mock salute, but remembered in time that it wasn't appropriate here in a public precession. She turned it into a head scratch instead.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz continued "Actually, the first time I didn't come. I almost froze when he went in, but I don't think he noticed, he was a bit eager. He came quite quickly, and I told him he was too quick, and he became all apologetic, so I made him promise to do better next time. Then I showed him what to do to make me come, and he did."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Fingers, tongue or what?" Paula asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Er... fingers actually." Liz sounded just slightly embarrassed, but was continuing with the air of someone who is going to see it through. "I hadn't bathed, and I didn't know if he'd be too embarrassed. By the time I came, he was hard again, and this time I didn't freeze up. He lasted longer too, and I came again while he was still working up to his. Is that what you wanted to know?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "No other problems apart from freezing up the first time? How did you feel while he was inside you? Did you get any flashbacks?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I might have if I'd been lying on my back, but I wasn't. The first time I was sitting on him, he was lying down, and the second time I was sitting in the chair and he was kneeling in front of me. But once I came the first time, I relaxed. Besides, he's white; my rapists were all black. Maybe I'll have more problems with a black guy?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe, but it's the first time that's hardest. If he's a caring lover, you shouldn't get flashbacks. I take it you didn't have an orgasm while you were being raped?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hell no! Why, did you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I did once." Nalini spoke slowly. "That caused some problems for a while, but I got over them all with Danny's help. It's a shame you can't find yourself someone as good as him, but Rupert seems sensitive enough, though you might have to teach him a few things."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz was nodding thoughtfully. "I think I understand why you made me that offer about teaching me. Thanks, I appreciate it. But do you think you and Danny can teach me things about sex and energy without actually having to er... do it? You know what I mean."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I guessed she meant that Nalini thought highly enough of me, and valued the help I'd been in helping her to enjoy sex again that she had wanted to help Liz past that same hump.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled back. "I'm glad you understand. I'm sure there are some things we can teach you without taking your clothes off. Come and see us afterwards. I'll think about whether we could teach Rupert anything as well, otherwise you'll have to teach him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The precession took about half an hour to wind its way into the city center. We rode along a tree-lined avenue to the square. The square was crowded, I had no idea where they would keep all the horses. Cleaning up after so many horses would be a major job. We might complain about cars polluting, but so do animals, and their pollution is usually more immediately offensive.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In the center of the square is a large fountain with naked nymphs playing and spraying water over each other. There are also a few naked men playing with them, and two of them had obvious erections. The puritans might not be amused as they rode past.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were barricades to keep the crowds away from the middle of the square, and passage to the temple. The procession was stalled here as those at the head dismounted, and gave their mounts into the care of grooms. We inched forward, and then it was our turn to dismount. We were near the main steps to the temple, and already the area was fouled with horse dung. There were several people scurrying around trying to clear it away, but with several hundred horses still to come, they would be busy.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The grooms led our horses around the right of the temple, presumably to some temporary holding yard. The barricades were only a few meters away, and behind the barricades was a sea of faces, cheering, pointing, and waving. People seemed to know of us, we picked up references to out names.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey Liz, if you've ever wondered what it'd be like to be a famous rock star, this is part of it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's different, but I don't know if I'd like this sort of treatment every day. Jeez, it'd make going for a walk hard."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, but a lot more of them will recognize us after this."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "At least we don't have to contend with the paparazzi taking pictures." Nalini added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "People here are more deferential toward nobles." Paula added. "They won't crowd you out and ask for your autograph. But you have to be careful in shops, because a lot of shopkeepers will try to give you the goods for free, then advertise that you shop there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The temple is large, cathedral like, and round. The altar is in the center, with a high dome above it, and set into the dome are circular windows, cunningly designed so that a beam of sunlight is let onto the altar during the service. The roof is high, supported by huge columns, the groined ceiling is covered with religious frescoes, as are the walls. The central altar was covered with white cloth, and taking pride of place was a stand with a large solar disk of solid gold. On the left side of the altar were two crowns, covered with cloth-of-gold. On the right side of the altar were several jewel encrusted golden goblets, and a large gold jug that presumably contained wine. The jug was shaped like a bull's head, complete with curving horns.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Like most cathedrals, there are no fixed seats. For this occasion, seating had been provided for the guests. We were shown to a high backed trestle seat with cushions, we were seated part way round, left of the central isle, about nine rows from the front. My impression was that the best seats were in the segment in front of the altar, the cheap seats were behind the altar, along with the musicians and choir, where many lesser nobles had to stand.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The seats were not arranged in simple rows as in most churches, but were grouped so that members of noble houses could sit together, with gaps between each grouping. King Charles and his group were situated to the right of the main isle, passing comments among each other.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik and Enyil were seated in two very ornate chairs of carved dark wood, with red velvet cushions. They were situated to the left of the altar, but on the dais, facing us. I noticed that Amrik had removed his crown, and that Enyil had removed her tiara. The priest was dressed in flowing white robes, with a huge gold breastplate carved with a solar disk.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The service was sort of interesting, and bore some resemblance to services I have attended back home. The priest spoke, or read passages from scripture, the musicians played while the choir sang. An assistant walked through the congregation with a golden censor. After about half an hour of this, the priest poured wine into a goblet, raised the goblet and intoned a blessing, after which drank some, and then gave some to Amrik and Enyil. Assistants came, poured wine into the other goblets, and then the congregation was invited to partake. We had been instructed previously that since we were not members of the religion, we should stay in our seats. Music played and hymns were sung while the wine was distributed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After this, the marriage ceremony was conducted. The Viharani couple I did not know turned out to be Enyil's parents; they presented Enyil to the priest. Prospero and his mother stood in for Amrik's parents, and presented Amrik to the priest. The couple knelt before the altar and exchanged their marriage vows, while the priest stood behind them with a hand on each head. Then the couple stood and briefly faced the congregation, before kneeling again.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The priest went to the alter, uncovered the crowns. These were different from the one worn by Amrik on the way in: both were studded with precious gems, and each one bore a circular solar disk that stood above the rest of the crown. He blessed each crown, and raised it above his head in both hands. Then the priest handed one crown to Amrik, who placed the crown on his own head. Then Amrik stood, and together with the priest, placed the second crown on Enyil's head.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Then the priest turned to the congregation and announced in a loud voice "In the name of Mithras, I present to you the king and queen of Aquilonia. May their reign be long and just, may their union be loving and fruitful!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At this the congregation broke into applause, and we could hear echoes from outside. It was only now that I realized there was a man in Prospero's livery who was running around with an expensive camera, taking pictures. I hoped he was using high-speed film, because he wasn't using the flash.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik lead Enyil to her throne then sat himself while the priest intoned the closing prayers. After this the priest raised his right hand in benediction and blessed the assembled congregation. Amrik stood, walked from the dais, and then hugged Prospero and then Prospero's mother. He made his way through the congregation to where we were sitting, and hugged Nalini and then me and then Paula. Enyil followed and did the same. It occurred to me that this would send a major signal to the assembled nobles - Nalini and I were his trusted friends, almost on par with Prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After this, he made a point of going to each noble house, and embracing the head of the house, and each visiting king. Finally he took Enyil's hand, and led her down the aisle and through the door, while we all clapped. When they emerged from the main doors, there was a huge roar from the crowd that seemed to go on and on, like a grand final crowd when the winning goal is scored.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The rest of us filed out in the same order in which we had filed in. When we emerged, we discovered that Amrik and Enyil had been walking slowly down the route of the procession, greeting the crowds.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I wonder if any of the visiting kings have this sort of popularity back home?" I commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I doubt it." Nalini replied. "This might be something of an eye-opener for them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I looked around for king Charles and the others. Charles and Rupert were talking, as were Cromwell and Matthew. My translation spell was running, and one of its properties is that by focussing my attention on someone talking I can usually pick up what they are saying.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert was commenting "...return as the victorious monarch who does away with the witch persecutions your popularity will rise. But do not forget he deposed a tyrant, and he is giving the people a voice in their government."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles replied "Perhaps I should talk with duke Prospero about things that can be to improve my popularity. This civil war should never have started it has..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I turned my attention to Cromwell and Matthew. Matthew was commenting "...should praise god that Charles is not that popular."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That popinjay never could command respect for his person, only for his office! We will obtain most of what we want from these negotiations, though we may need assistance from the Aquilonians to keep Charles docile."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What we do not achieve through these negotiations we can put on the agenda for parliamentary government. These Aquilonians are an odd people, but their rulers seem to be trying to do what is best for their people. I think we can make their ideas for parliamentary government work in England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And clip Charles' wings! With that accomplished\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0" I turned my attention away.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik and Enyil continued walking along the processional route. When the rest of the procession was mounted, we followed behind. The king and queen did not remount, but walked the entire route.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The rest of the day was devoted to feasting and celebrations. The celebrations would last for days, but Amrik and Enyil were departing that afternoon, and would not be back for two weeks. During their absence Prospero would be regent.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I shared a table with the Amrik and Enyil at the wedding breakfast that was really a luncheon, but due to the table arrangement, we did not have much opportunity to talk with them. We did have conversations with most of the major nobles and many of the minor nobles, who seemed to make a point of singling us out to speak with us. The significance of the fact that Amrik had hugged us after Prospero had not been lost on any of them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We already knew most of the, at least by sight. All were polite, urbane, as people tend to be at these sorts of functions. What they really thought of two upstart nobles pushing them all down a peg they would of course not even hint at in our presence.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Before Amrik and Enyil left, we did invite them to visit us back in shadow Brisbane.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik replied "First we must get these English back home, and set up our embassy. Our visit to Brisbane must wait. But you will be at your estates next week, will you not? I've a mind to drop in there on the way back, and tarry for a few days."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You will be more than welcome. I think Prospero and Paula will be there as well." I did not add that at some stage all the English and the Viharani would also be there. Hopefully they'd all have gone by the time the king and queen arrived.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I hope they will, Prospero and I might go hunting while we are there. I haven't been hunting for months!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I smiled back at him. "I take it that means the hunting is good?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It will be excellent, as you will see. Well, we will talk more at Bendora. Duty calls I am afraid. We hugged him, hugged and kissed Enyil, and wished them well. They moved on to say their farewells to other nobles.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A little later, Cromwell came over to talk with Nalini and me. "You may not be aware of it, but I owe you an apology. I had thought you little more than minor nobles and at worst brigands when you took us from England. Little did I realize that you and duke Prospero were King Amrik's favorites, and the two most important nobles in the kingdom of Aquilonia."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We both smiled at his honest way of trying to curry favor. Nalini replied innocently "Why Lord Cromwell, does this mean you are judging us by our worldly titles and not our achievements?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He smiled in return. "Oh no lady Nalini, in this case your titles and the king's high regard for the two of you highlights your achievements. You did not gain these titles by accident of birth, but earned them in service of the king. I have a very high regard for that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And did not you also earn the title Lord Protector? We have a high regard for your achievements, though you may not know it." I guess we were learning the art of politics, or at least being politic.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a twinkle in Cromwell's eye as he replied. "Oh, you have not been open about it, but I have deduced that. Normally you treat all of us as equals, showing no regard for rank or title. That commands my respect, that you can treat a king and a common soldier as your equals. King Amrik is similar, he treats any commoner he meets as if he is as important as any noble. I have no doubt that this counts much toward his popularity. He is noble, in a way that most nobles will never understand. I only wish that we had a king like that, for none of our troubles would ever have arisen."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini nodded. "Amrik is one of the few truly noble people I have met. People sense that, and respond accordingly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "But Amrik and Prospero deposed a tyrant in a civil war, the same war that claimed Amrik's family and Prospero's father. When we met him, he was looking for a better alternative to rule by a despotic king. In our own country we have over three hundred years of parliamentary democracy, set up by your namesake." Cromwell's eyebrows raised at that. "We may criticize our form of government, but it works much better than any other form we have seen."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I believe that a parliament of the people is perhaps the fairest and most just form of government we can conceive of. From talking with you about your own government, you convince me that what we are trying to do in England will be a just and honorable solution."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "You are an astute man Lord Cromwell. But how did you deduce that we respect you more than king Charles? I thought we rebuke you even more than Charles."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, it is true that you have rebuked most of us, but there has always been a just or spiritual basis for your rebukes, they are never arbitrary. When you speak with king Charles, you explain, whereas with me you argue. By that I deduce that my opinions are more important to you than those of king Charles. You do not care whether the king agrees with you or not, but you care that I should agree with you. Have I said enough?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We hadn't thought of our behavior in those terms. As Nalini said, Cromwell himself was very observant and astute, traits to be expected from someone who had earned the title Lord Protector. He had also decided to get on-side with us. "We know much about what you were trying to achieve, and we agree with many of your aims. Some we do not agree with, as you know." Cromwell nodded. "It was unfortunate that you were lead astray by demons, but god has since opened your eyes, there is no shame in that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, there is shame in being lead astray. But as you say, god has opened our eyes, and when we return to England we will rectify our error."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Also, there are three hundred years of development of theology and spiritual thought between us, some of the things you take for granted we are appalled at."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell commented "That is possibly the hardest notion for me to accept. Your statement makes you to be superior, more spiritually developed than I. I cannot concede that, but I am willing to discuss those developments with you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We are quite happy to discuss that with you. I think you will find that Durathror is also. But we can't fault you for being a product of your culture, I'm sure that there are attitudes we have that would appall more spiritually developed people. Maybe we shouldn't interfere, but Danny and I think we can't just leave things alone when we can do something to help people."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "As a Christian, you must be proactive." Cromwell responded. "If your attitudes are different from ours, then we must all study the bible to determine what Jesus taught on the matter. I really do want to discuss the issues you have raised with yourselves and Prince Durathror."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At this point Matthew and Thomas joined us. "We would like to be involved in any such discussions as well. I believe we can contribute, and we can learn."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We will find time for such discussions." I commented. "But tell me, what are your thoughts about the negotiations? I heard a rumor that you are happy with them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The others looked to Cromwell. He looked thoughtful for a moment before he replied. "Let me say that my discussions with you and duke Prospero and king Amrik the other night have convinced me that what you are proposing can be made to work in England. It is largely in accord with what we were attempting to set up; I believe that we are heading in the right direction. We never wanted to depose the monarch, but he started the civil war by threatening us with his troops. I am surprised that he has agreed to parliament curbing his powers like that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew commented sardonically "He'll wriggle like an eel the moment he's back in England, and repudiate all his promises."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We know" I replied "but that is where Prospero's guarantees come in. He's still working out exactly how to implement them, but as far as I'm aware, the changes you all agree to will be implemented when you return, and we will be there for a time to oversee the transition and help if needed. Once the structures are in place, he can wriggle all he likes, but he won't be able to undo them. But neither will you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Right now, I think that Charles has had the fear of god put into him. He nearly lost his head over his stupid civil war, and he knows that at present we represent the best chance he has of regaining the throne. Like you said Matthew, he will promise what ever is necessary to get back to England and his throne."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I continued "Once things are set up and working, we can hand everything over to the government, and let things run their normal course. I think Amrik and Prospero want some sort of treaty of mutual friendship and trade, and would want to set up an embassy in England. England of course would send an ambassador to Aquilonia."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell responded "We will have a treaty and exchange ambassadors. But we must take care that we do not corrupt England's moral fiber."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I chuckled and shook my head. "Lord Cromwell, since none of you English will be able to travel between parallel earths, contact between our two cultures will be severely limited. I think Amrik is more in favor of exchange of ideas between his government and yours. The general populace won't know much about Aquilonia at all. Our respective governments will filter what exchange there is."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell nodded "That is acceptable. The government must always control ideas."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "As long as the government is subject to the will of the people, then that is acceptable, because the government then reflects community standards. But when you have a few autocrats deciding what ideas will be allowed out into the public arena, then you have tyranny and despotism."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We had a free exchange of ideas, as reporters often write of political discussions. In other words we argued about rights of people versus powers of government, obligations of people versus obligations of government, and a whole lot of side issues. I don't think the puritans agreed that often, but many of the ideas Nalini and I canvassed were new to them. There was no point pressing the issues, they had to be given the information, and then had to go away and think about them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Eventually we all resolved we had discussed enough for one day, and would continue at a later date. They had just stood up to leave, when Prospero and Paula came over, accompanied by Rupert and Liz whom they had collected on the way.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You guys want to hang around, or would you prefer to go?" I asked. I was sick of having to make polite conversation.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We've only just returned." Prospero answered. He was carrying some sheets of paper. Paula snapped her fingers, and a waiter appeared at her elbow. She gave him some orders, and he went away.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero dropped the sheaf of papers in front of us. "Have a look at this!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 This was four sheets of paper, folded in half, stapled in the center like a magazine. It looked like a miniaturized newspaper, complete with masthead, black and white printing in two columns and pictures of the wedding. Unfortunately the printing was in Aquilonian writing. There were a number of copies in the stack.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell leaned over to look at the newspaper I held. "This is some kind of news sheet, is it not?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was grinning with the air of someone who has just performed some feat of magic. "Correct lord Cromwell. I print a weekly newspaper. Usually I limit it to two sheets of paper for eight pages, but this one covers the royal wedding, so several pages are devoted to pictures of the wedding. It will be selling on the streets tomorrow morning for half a silver piece, it always sells out."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We're impressed. What do you use to print this?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, the camera ready copy is done on our PC, printed on a laser printer, then that goes into the camera process that makes the printing-plates, then we run off several thousand copies."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So what do you use for power?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The waiter returned with goblets and two flasks of wine. He poured the wine and gave it to the six of us. He looked at Cromwell who shook his head. "Just water thank you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero replied "The press is steam powered, the computer and other electronics are powered by batteries. They are recharged by solar power, but there is also a small steam powered generator we can use in emergencies."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert commented "I have a passing familiarity with the printing press, but some of the terms you mentioned are quite beyond my comprehension."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, the computer and laser printer are technology from Danny and Nalini's world, neither your world nor ours has the ability to build them yet. Electronics will take some time to develop, we do not have the science to understand. We use them to produce the first copy, laid out correctly. It means that the time between writing the articles and deciding on the layout, and producing the plates for printing can be much reduced. Otherwise we could never have produced these the same afternoon."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 To us he added "Originally we printed all the copies on the laser printer, but it is not capable of high speed printing like a press is. It proved the paper was saleable though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell commented "The pictures are very lifelike. I am impressed. Whoever drew them is an excellent artist."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's a shame none of us can read Aquilonian." Nalini commented. Who does the writing? Who does the typing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Originally it was me with help from Paula. Her Aquilonian is not good enough to let her write articles yet. Now I have two scribes who are employed to collect news, write articles, and we decide what to include the day before the print run. Paula does most of the typing and layout. There are two people employed to look after the press and run it, and then we have between twenty and thirty people who sell the paper on street corners."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell handed the paper back. "This is obviously the way of the future. Our newssheets are usually only a single sheet, but I can see this happening in England. I think we might be advised to do what you are doing, and control the process from the government. Matthew, do we know any parliamentarian who might be interested in printing newssheets?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I do not know of any, but I am sure we can find one. Now if you will excuse me, I really must go, call of nature." Matthew left with this.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "We report on government decisions, and any other events that might be of popular interest, including major sporting events."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell laughed. "Our newssheets tend to be printed by people critical of the government. I can see advantages if we can arrange to print one by the government. I wonder why we never thought of it before?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero observed "I suspect that most of your nobles are not well educated, and those that are tend to be traditionalists. Most of them would think that trade is beneath them. I have studied things that have been developed in Danny and Nalini's world, now I am in the process of adapting some of their inventions to our world. Prince Rupert, Lord Cromwell, would either of you like to look at our press?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell shook his head. "Thank you, but no. Technology is not something I understand well. I think I have taken up enough of Earl Daniel and Lady Nalini's time today. I shall be going." He drank his glass of water, and departed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert was more enthusiastic. "I am interested in technology, especially the application of steam power. It is something I do understand. I would like to look at your press. But tell me, how did you get the pictures so lifelike?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled. "I'm glad you asked me something I understand. Computers and electronics I do not understand, though one day I will. Photography I do understand. It is essentially a straight forward mechanical and chemical process, I think you will understand also." He launched into a detailed explanation of photography.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I asked Paula "What about the printing using Aquilonian writing? I'm sure that isn't a font option you can buy back home."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She smiled proudly. "I set that up! You can buy software to design fonts, I had to learn how to do that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I remembered now that Paula had been asking questions about creating fonts a couple of months ago. I'd answered her as best I could, and promptly forgotten about it. "I remember now. You've done a good job."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm surprised you didn't tell us about this before." Nalini commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, I wanted to, but it was Prospero's big secret. He went off with Durathror looking for equipment. You know he's been learning how to use computers back home. He worked out what he wanted, then went off and bought it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Later, Prospero lead us through his printing press. He led us through a locked door into a room where there was a single computer with twenty one inch screen, a high resolution laser printer, and next to it was a scanner. An uninterruptible power supply stood in on corner, with a cable snaking through the barred window to the solar panels on the roof. There were several desks and chairs and a large filing cabinet.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero showed us some large capacity removable hard disk cartridges. "I've followed your advice Danny. We use these for backup, and a second copy goes to my rooms for off-site backup. The scanner is used for photos, Paula types in the stories, then we sit down and layout the newspaper using a desktop publishing program. Then we print the pages here on the laser printer. Rupert, I don't understand how all this works, but I know how to use it." He held up two sheets of paper stuck together with clear sticky tape. "This is what we want to end up with, this is the camera ready copy. It could be anything, including a hand written manuscript. What happens after this stage I am sure you could do in England. All you need is the equipment, the chemicals which can be manufactured, and the paper and ink."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He led us back into the corridor, and into the next room. This one was large, and partly filled with machinery. He indicated a camera lens mounted in a frame. "This is what makes the plates for printing. The camera ready artwork goes here" he placed the sheets face up on the table "and then we line up the camera correctly and take a photo. This gives us a negative image, which we use to make the printing plate from. If you want to print less than about a thousand copies, you can use paper masters, but they wear out somewhere around fifteen hundred copies, and the last couple of hundred are blurry. We are running off about three thousand copies at present, I was considering using metal plates. However, that requires acid for etching, and quite a few nasty chemicals, so instead we make three paper plates, and print a thousand copies from each. The paper plate is coated with a special photographic emulsion, it goes in here. Once it has been exposed, it is developed and etched. The black bits on the copy here don't reflect light, so that part of the image doesn't react when it's exposed, but the white parts cause the emulsion to react to the light. When it's developed, the parts that reacted wash off, we collect that and recycle it. The emulsion that did not react solidifies into a metallic deposit on the paper. That means that the white parts remain as clean paper in the plate, the black parts are raised. It's the raised parts that take the ink."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He pointed to a door near by. "In there is my dark room." He opened the door, showed us shelves with tanks, drums of fluid, shelves piled with paper. He flicked a switch and lit everything with a soft red glow. "I can do all the photographic developing and printing right here. Admittedly the equipment comes from Danny and Nalini's world, but I am considering what can be produced here. At present I'm the only user, so I'm happy to buy what I need and import it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert asked more questions. Prospero finally ushered us all in, closed the door, and went through the process of printing a photo from a negative. "The baths have to be kept at the correct temperature, so I use electricity for that. We use red light because the paper isn't sensitive to it. Otherwise I could never see what I was doing." Rupert watched open mouthed as the image appeared on the paper in the tray of developing liquid. Prospero fixed it, washed it, then hung the wet photo up to dry. "We'll come back when it's dry."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He switched off the light and led us to where some old plates were stored. "These have ink on them, so be careful, but you'll get the idea. The plate goes in the machine, the machine coats the plate with ink, presses a sheet of paper against it, and we have a printed copy. We can run off as many copies as we like simply by creating extra masters. We collect all the old plates, and used chemicals, and take them back to Danny's world for recycling. Eventually we will do all that here, but we need to understand the technology first."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He led us over to the press itself, where two men tended it. Sheets of paper went in one hopper, the printed pages were deposited into another. There was a tank for the ink. On the other side of the room was the steam engine that supplied motive power to a pulley. That turned a crankshaft that ran across the ceiling, and then via more pulleys turned the press.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert asked a few questions, which Prospero tried to answer. Prospero finished with "Eventually I will move to a fully electronic method, where the plates are made electronically, and no chemicals are needed. It will work something like a laser printer, except that the laser printer drum is only good for about fifty thousand copies, while the fully electronic printer is good for millions of copies. Then there will be no chemicals to recycle, just ink to purchase."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert remarked "I do not fully understand everything, but the making of the plates onwards makes sense to me. We use a system of moveable type, I think that once upon a time our printing presses did use fixed plates, except they had to be carved by hand. I would most like to know how the press operates once a plate is in it, because the use of steam to automate the press would mean that many copies could be produced very swiftly. I think this is well within our own technology. Photography seems too complicated for now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "The print run will finish later tonight. We could come back when the boys are stripping the machine down to clean it, you'll get to see how it works then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert nodded "I would like that. Thank you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "This is the only printing press in the kingdom at present. I don't know why no one ever thought of the concept before, but no one has. Like you, I started with the idea that steam power was closer to my own level, but it is a dirtier technology than electronics. On the other hand, we can repair this equipment here, but the electronic stuff has to be taken back to Danny's world. I have no problem with importing electronic technology I need, but at some stage we need to advance our science to the point where we understand how this works. I don't think we need to be able to make all of it here, if you look at Danny and Nalini's world, electronic goods are manufactured in only a few places, and transported around their world."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think this was a little beyond Rupert's experience, for he nodded and said nothing. I asked "Are you making a profit?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No," he grinned "but I'm enjoying myself."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Are you planning on expanding to print books all sorts of things?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course, but we need to stimulate a demand for the printed word first. I intend to set up a complete publishing and printing house, publish all the books, magazines, periodicals and a daily newspaper. This is the pilot process if you like. But we will need to build a heavy-duty electronic generator, and you know what that means? Electric light, a power grid, refrigerators, televisions, computers and all that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would like to know more about this electricity." Rupert asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I wasn't sure where to start. He probably had about seven years of science education to learn. Prospero replied "I'll explain what I can. I even have a book on the subject back in my rooms; I've read it, but I only understood about half of it." He launched into an explanation of rotating magnets inside wire coils, and the basics behind batteries. That took a while.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Rupert, one day we will explain how a computer works, but before then, you need about seven years of schooling to get to a point where you will understand the explanation. You can read English, we will start you with some books, and you can work your way through at your own pace...."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...But you will also need to visit our world, because many of the things you will read about will make no sense otherwise." Nalini added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert spread his arms disarmingly. "I have no way of travelling there, but if one of you are willing to convey me, I would be pleased to visit."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We'll be pleased to have you. It's a lot different from here though..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...and it may have to wait until the situation in England has stabilized. Will the king want you around him when we return you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert shrugged "I do not know. But if you promise you will bring me to your world and show me things, then I will be content to wait until the time is ripe."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled "We promise that prince Rupert. You have become a friend of ours."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero, are you planning on doing color printing, or just black and white?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Black and white is simpler, most of what I plan to print will be black and white. But the same press will print color if need be."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How do you print color?" Rupert asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Essentially the same as black and white, except that you make a plate for each color and pass the paper through once for each color. Of course, you will do a run with one color, say green, then another color, say red, and you have to clean the machine between colors."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert shook his head. "But there must be hundreds of colors. Do you need hundreds of plates? And how do you make each plate different?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled "It's a lot simpler than that. If you talk to an artist, they may produce twenty or thirty different colors in a painting, but they will use perhaps four or five main ones they mix to produce the range of colors. It's the same in printing, most colors can be made by mixing three primary colors, red, yellow and blue, plus black. You need the computer or you need the camera to do this though, because to mix the inks when you print you need a plate made up with many small raised dots, and the dots for one color must be slightly offset from the dots of a second color. I believe it can be done by hand if you are a skilled artist. The computer can do it for us, and will print one copy for each color. I read that the camera can also be used if you place a red glass over the lens and make a plate, then a yellow glass and make a second plate. But there are some difficulties with that. How do you convert an area of one color into a set of raised dots? I don't know. The computer will print the color separation with small black dots, which the camera can copy to the plate. You also need to ensure that the different plates line up, and that the paper is placed in exactly the same position each time a different color is printed. Electronic technology does it all for you, but we don't have that yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked impressed. He was even more impressed when Prospero showed him some color photographs of the wedding, including the one he had developed. The two of them began discussing photography.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think Prospero is going to convert Rupert to a camera buff."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shrugged. "Rupert is a lot like Prospero actually, have you guys noticed?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula looked wide-eyed, her little miss innocent look. "I hadn't noticed, but I guess you've been spending a lot more time with him Liz."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I've noticed the similarity Paula." Nalini commented "They are both nobles in line to a throne, but they will never sit on that throne, they have both fought as generals in a civil war, they are both essentially decent chaps, they are both interested in typical boy things like gee whiz technology, they are from societies with a similar level of technology. They aren't the same, but there are a lot of similarities between them. I'm sure the two of them will wind up being firm friends."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula winked at Liz. "You could wind up with a German Prince huh?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shrugged. "He's nice. We need to get to know each other a lot better first. He'll probably be disappointed if he gets to meet my family. I don't know Paula, I'm not looking to get married for years yet. I just want to enjoy myself for a while."}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After the amount of food we'd eaten for lunch, we ate sparely for dinner. After dinner, Rupert and Prospero headed back to the office to watch the printer being dismantled and cleaned. The four of us headed back to our apartments.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini stated "Liz, we said we'd teach you what we could about energy sharing. Now is as good a time as any."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Er... okay."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Can I stay and watch?" Paula asked, a suggestive leer on her face.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We might use you as a model." Nalini suggested. "You can be the one to strip!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh yeah? Does this mean I get to practice with Danny?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Within limits you little minx." Nalini was smiling as she spoke. "You wouldn't want Prospero to walk in on you doing things, now would you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, you guys are chaperones! What kind of a girl do you think I am?!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think we already know." Nalini responded. "Look what happened last time I was chaperone."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh... er... yeah, we don't have to go that far!" The little miss innocent look was back.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No. Danny, do you want to do the talking?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay. Let's see. Liz, you know about the main energy centers, the chakras. They act as channels to conduct energy from outside us. There are seven major chakras, they correspond to what we call the seven colors, or the seven great bands. Each chakra has its own energy channeled from its great band. The lowest band is the physical, with the color red, then next band is the world of dreaming, with the color orange. The others bands we are not that familiar with as yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You've shown you some exercises for each chakra, and one to cause energy to flow between all of them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The energy flows are actually more complicated than that. There are meridians all over your body where energy flows, with small centers along each line. It's a bit like acupuncture and Japanese shiatsu, but you don't have to learn all those centers yet. Most of them are side issues to what we do, but we believe it helps to know about them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You don't mean like sticking needles in do you? And what's Japanese what-you-may-call-it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, you don't go sticking needles in, that's a very crude form of stimulation. Japanese shiatsu is similar to acupuncture, except that you use pressure rather than needles, so it's sometimes called acupressure. I'll get to the meridians a bit later. The most important thing is that males and females for want of a better word color the energies they channel, but the color is different for each sex. What needs to happen is that male and female energies are balanced; this is done by exchanging energies between a male and a female."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You're talking sex aren't you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes and no. You don't have to have sex, but the energy exchange leads to sexual arousal, and sex, especially orgasm, helps the balancing process. We find that energy channeling combined with sex leads to a point where the first and even second orgasm helps the build up, and the third one completes the process."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "You don't have sex for the sake of the orgasm, you use sex to help the energies flow. The orgasm is a side effect of the flow, until the energies are in balance. The hard part about explaining this is you really have to be doing it to understand fully. We'll talk about how to build up the energies."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She held her palms out to me, I held my palms about three or four inches away from hers, right to left and left to right. Liz already knew about this exercise. I spoke "Liz, one of the ways is to stimulate the chakras. This can be done by gentle massaging the area, or lightly scratching it with your fingernails or fingertips, or sucking on it with your lips and tongue, or even directing a flow of energy onto it." It didn't take long for the energy flows between Nalini and me to become quite noticeable.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now Liz, the chakra most involved in sex, and physical well being for that matter, is the basal chakra. In females, that is situated in the area between the vagina and the anus. In men, it is between their balls and their anus. The basal chakra is the one most easy to stimulate. Clothes generally don't impede the energy flows, but they do make it more difficult to locate a chakra." This was a delicate moment. "We won't ask you to undress, and I'm not going to touch you, but I do need you to slide down in the chair and spread your legs."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Um..." she looked at us, then Paula. "No comments, okay?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula smiled. "This is serious Liz, I won't make any remarks. Besides, Danny showed me this."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And Nalini showed me." Liz slid down in her chair, and spread her legs. She was wearing trousers. I placed my hand between her knees, palm facing her vulva, and moved slowly toward her until I could feel her energies. My palm was about six inches from her body. I moved my palm back and forwards so that she would feel my energies interact with hers, then stop, then back again. "I can feel the energy from your basal chakra. You should be able to feel the energy from my hand."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It does feel sort of tingly. That's weird!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I moved my hand forward another three inches. I could feel her energies as warmth, and the warmth was growing. She would soon start to notice that she was becoming sexually aroused. "What do you feel now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's warmer, like you're touching me. But I can see you're not." She closed her eyes. "This is weird, I'd swear you have your hand on me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He doesn't" Paula remarked. "Liz, you should be starting to feel excited, you might even be starting to get wet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh!" Liz looked a little embarrassed. "Er... yeah. I think you're right."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now you see why it is hard to teach this stuff unless you're in a sexual relationship with your teacher."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini moved beside me. "Liz, we want you to close your eyes for a moment, and see what you can feel."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I slid my hand away. Liz wiggled slightly, and looked a little disappointed. "You've removed your hand."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's right." Nalini slid her hand in between Liz's legs in place of mine, at about the same distance.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, that's almost unpleasant."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Open your eyes. At least we know you're not a lesbian." Nalini commented with a smile.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz opened her eyes. "Oh, it's you Nalini! Why does it feel unpleasant?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini grinned, removed her hand. "You've lost your sexual excitement. Imladril told me it always had to be male female, that you can't balance energies between two people of the same sex. Now you know that is true. I'm not sure about homosexuals, they might be able to balance their energies with each other, but none of us girls can. We need a man for that. You can put your legs together now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thanks!" She looked relieved.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Liz, it's important that you can find your own chakras, and those of your partner. You should really stimulate all of his, and he should stimulate all of yours."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think I know where they are. How do you stimulate them? Like you did with your hand?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's one way. But don't overlook physical contact. You can gently rake them with your fingernails, you can massage then gently, you can kiss them, lick them, or suck on them. These are techniques that work for us, they should work for you and your partner."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Liz, can you show us where your second chakra is? Just move your clothes enough to show us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Jeez, I'm glad you didn't ask me to do that with my base chakra!" She lifted her shirt, unbuckled her trousers to show her navel. "It's just below my belly button isn't it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, about an inch to two inches." Nalini responded. "It's involved in sexual excitement, so stimulating it is also sexually arousing. This chakra is also the power center for shape shifting. One day if you develop enough power you'll learn about that. Danny, do you want to demonstrate some arousal techniques on me?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She sat back in her chair, lifted her shirt and undid her trousers. I demonstrated the use of fingernails, fingertips, palm of the right hand, lips and tongue. Then Nalini asked "Liz, can Danny show these on you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh... Just as long as Rupert doesn't walk in the door."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula responded "He won't. I've told the servants to warn us when they come up the stairs."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's important that you experience for yourself what happens, that way you'll be able to guide your partner to do it right." Nalini added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, go ahead Danny." Behind her, Paula smirked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I knelt before Liz, and proceeded to demonstrate on her second chakra. I was well aware that Liz was becoming aroused again. Nalini commented "Liz, you can try this on Rupert tonight, and get him to try the same to you. You can stimulate any of the chakras like that, the basal one is a good one for finger nails and finger tips, or if the area is clean, lips and tongue. But you'll have to experiment with Rupert, we're not going to do that. Did you want to try any of that on Danny, or would you rather wait? You do need feedback on whether what you are doing is right. "}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked happy, pleased with herself. "If you and Danny don't mind, I suppose I should."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz did need practice. I guided her how to do it better, and also how to feel some feedback for herself. Then I asked "All right Liz, can you show us where your third chakra is?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She stood up and lifted her shirt. "It's my solar plexus isn't it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes. Stimulating this one isn't sexually arousing, but the energies can spill over and stimulate the lower chakras. This is the chakra you use in shadow shifting."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We went through each of the chakras one by one, ensuring that Liz knew how to find it, and how to stimulate it. In the time we had available, there was no way we could give a complete course, this was just the basics. But then, Liz needed to start with the basics, and learn at her own pace.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Then Nalini and I demonstrated some sexual techniques, but fully clothed. Instructions are good, but actual practice is better. Liz gained the benefits of the concepts, without the actual doing that would enable her to repeat it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "For some reason, I keep thinking of a Monty Python skit where John Cleese is teaching sex education to a group of school kids, and he brings his wife in and goes through an actual demonstration."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked blank, but Paula commented "I think I've seen that on video. They both get their clothes off, start having sex, and John Cleese is describing everything in a sort of bored clinical fashion. Don't worry, you two don't sound bored or clinical."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How am I going to remember all this?" Liz asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Don't worry, just practice what you can remember, and ask for refresher pointers from time to time. Half the fun is practicing it and trying new things. You'll find you get a feel for what works."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were interrupted by the servant announcing Prospero's return, and turned immediately to plan B, prepared by Paula. When Prospero and Rupert arrived the four of us were in the middle of a game of mahjong.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Both men had ink and grease smeared on their hands and faces. Paula complained "Did you boys have to go and get dirty? And in your good clothes too!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They both looked a little sheepish. Prospero replied "We wanted to have a closer look at how certain pieces of machinery operated. Unfortunately they were dirty."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula shook her head in mock exasperation. "Typical boys! Always taking things apart and getting dirty! Did you enjoy yourselves?" I wondered whether Paula's mother carried on like that when her father was working on the car, or doing something in the shed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Like mother like daughter hey sweetheart?>> Nalini thought to me.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<And like father like son. But I don't think you're like your mother, and I don't think I'm like my father.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<No, but other people might think differently.>> She blew me a mental kiss, accompanied by a giggle.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Once the two of them cleaned themselves, we started a new game and showed Rupert how to play. Initially we teamed him with Prospero and Liz with Paula, since Liz was only new to the game as well. We swapped around each time we played a new game, ending with Rupert and Liz playing on their own. Nalini and I are telepathic, we have to exercise a little care not to broadcast our strategies to each other when we are playing separately. Everyone seemed to enjoy himself or herself, mahjong is one of those games where you need at least four people. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That night, Prospero and Paula met up with us in dreaming, as we had arranged earlier. Nalini and I were sitting in the outdoor cafe near the university.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is five days by road to your estate, but only one by sea. Tomorrow as you know, we sail with the tide. I would like to show you the road tonight, so you can ride there yourselves if you wish."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He led the four of us back to the palace grounds. When seen from the perspective of dreaming, everything looked a little eerie. Everything seemed to be lit by a whitish light as from a moon, but every structure seemed to glow with inner light and life. Buildings and trees almost bubbled as if they were effervescent. Nothing external seemed completely real, since we could walk through it. We ourselves seemed to be as we were in waking, quite solid to touch, save that we floated a meter or so above the ground.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We headed down to the town gates, not by walking, but by floating. Select a point ahead, float to it, and then select another point in the distance. We could have walked, but then we would have been limited to a walking speed. By floating we could travel quite easily at the speed of a car, sometimes faster.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 From the town gates we followed the road east. The road was made in the style of Roman roads with flagstone paving. It was about two lanes wide, though at this time of night it was empty. The road had been carefully crafted to be higher in the center so that rain would run off into side ditches. Every Aquilonian mile there was a milestone marking the distance from Tarantia.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In the wooded areas, the verge had been cleared of trees and bushes for almost a bowshot. Prospero explained "Under old king Sorono, we had problems with bandits preying on travelers. This was one way to help prevent attacks, but travelers always had to travel in armed bands. One of the first actions Amrik performed as king was to round up most of the bandits. Many of them were resistance fighters, they were offered pardons if they returned to their original occupations. Those who had committed serious crimes were tried and punished, quite a few more tried to fight the king, and perished. Now days the roads are largely clear of bandits throughout the kingdom. That is one of the responsibilities of your estate by the way, you have an area of the country to oversee, and you have to keep it clear of bandits. There will be a county council that handles all of this, but you will be in charge of that. You'll be fully briefed when you arrive."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We might leave that till then. I thought from your discussions with Charles and Cromwell that as nobles we have a part to play in the running of the country."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our journey wasn't for sight seeing, but to travel the road and note the forks that we had to take. Part way along Nalini and I were struck by the same thought. Prospero had to show us the road because there was no map of the route. "Prospero, have you considered that there should be a road map?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He chuckled ruefully. "It has crossed my mind, this is one of many things I wish to do." He swept his hand through his hair. "I have so many irons in the fire I have trouble keeping track of them. One of those irons is to map the country. We lack the technology to produce accurate maps such as you have. There is a crude map of the country, with the major cities indicated, and the roads between them and the distances. Your estate is not on those maps, though the nearby town is."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey Prospero, I know you've been doing a lot of investigations by yourself, with Paula and Durathror, but why not ask us to help? Between the four of us we should be able to juggle twice as many irons."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "In the past you have been busy with your own work, and you haven't had the links to Aquilonia that you have now. I would appreciate your help. But in my defense" he held up a hand "at first I only had a few projects, and there wasn't a problem. I was just investigating forms of government, printing, and steam power. But the number has grown. We've been expanding the king's messenger service into the royal mail. It works, but we need post houses every ten miles along the road. A courier can travel up to a hundred or miles in a day. Big deal huh? We need a rapid transport system, I am looking at railways and steam power. We need a rapid communication system. I would prefer to avoid stringing telegraph wires across the country, but to avoid that we need satellites! We need electric power. Then there is mapping the country. We have a royal guild of cartographers, but they are six elderly men, and most of them are more concerned with the artistic illustrations of their maps than with their accuracy. The most accurate maps are those that were produced over five hundred years ago."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well Prospero, why don't we pool our talents and manage them all between us. It will take decades to do all this, possibly centuries for some. We set the direction, get the original stuff set up, and get to a point where locals can take over. You left out education, and do you really want to adopt our culture lock stock and barrel?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, that is the point. Some things I will import, but I want us to be able to develop much of the technology locally. I don't wish to repeat the mistakes of your shadow where the less technologically developed nations were over-run by the others. I'd like to do it right, or at least better." He smiled. "Even my newspaper is an example. I could become a newspaper baron, but that would entail importing all my technology. I want to develop a local equivalent, while still retaining some of the advantages of the imported technology. I dare say that other presses will set up in competition, but I would not want the infrastructure such as roads and rail to be subject to competition."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was nodding. "Yes, you don't need competing railway line sizes like we have back home. You might have competition between rail services, but they would all have to use the same lines. But you know my opinion, public transportation is a service that is difficult to run at a profit, at least if it is government run it can be concerned with meeting timetables and public safety. Those things tend to take a back seat when it's privatized."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "Prospero, my own opinion is that except for stuff for your personal use, you should avoid importing technology. That's exactly what the colonial powers did to the less technologically advanced nations. You should be looking at appropriate technology, and educating people. You people understand about steam power, it is within your society's current abilities, I would work mainly with that. If you are going to use electricity, you really need the background industries to support it, and the education levels. Otherwise it will be the colonies all over again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's a valid point Nalini, and one I've been thinking of. The newspaper is the first use of imported technology outside my own personal use. It's just that the things the computer allows me to do I can't do any other way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I know. It's there, maybe you could use that as a pilot for the most advanced technology, because you want to disseminate information and news, and you want to be able to print books in your own language to educate people. But for the rest, work out what your people can do now, and build that up slowly. Let them devise and invent, and not become dependent on our own research."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "A technology pilot is a convenient excuse for what I've done already." Prospero replied. "And it does serve my purpose to print a newspaper." He laughed ruefully. "You have crystallized a dilemma I have been facing but haven't fully verbalized. We can't just import your technology, we will be forever dependent on you, we must develop it ourselves, and that will take time. Technology pilots should stimulate us to develop the technology. But at the same time, I want to avoid making the mistakes your people made. It would be good if we could just go for best practice, but there is a host of problems associated with that approach."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We talked more, and at least resolved that the four of us would take an active role in the management of innovation into Aquilonia. If we retained contact with England, then there would be similar implications there that I did not want to think about.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We followed the road into the mountain range where Aquilonia's water supply came from. The road had been well engineered, and was reasonably straight. It passed through many towns along its way. Most of the forks and crossroads were in towns rather than out in the middle of nowhere. As it reached the foothills, it began to resort to switchbacks to manage the climb. The road angled through a low pass, and then descended via more switchbacks through farmland, across two rivers and into a major city. There we headed off to the right on a second road that wound into some low hills and then descended toward the coast. Eventually it passed into the city of Forgissa. There we took a minor road, no longer paved, that snaked its way into some more hills. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero, why isn't this road paved?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It isn't a main road. The main road circles those hills and heads for the seaport of Arana. There is a second paved road from there that leads from Arana to Maldana, but it stops there. Bendora is a little out from Maldana. I am taking the shorter route, it saves about one hundred and fifty miles."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 On the far side of those hills we could see the sea in the distance. Prospero commented "The sea port is over there, that is where we will sail to. Maldana is nearer, but off to the left somewhere. The Bendora estate stretches from these low hills all the way down to the sea, and some distance left and right." He pointed to a hill in the middle distance. "Your manor house is there, it has views to the sea, the hills, and a subterranean stream for water. I would have to look up my records to tell you more about it right now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I thought that Amrik said he had created this estate for us? Did he also build a manor house?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes and No." Prospero grinned. "The estate was created from crown land. But the manor house belonged to a noble house that died out three hundred years ago. The crown resumed the estate, and installed managers for the grounds and the farms. Amrik has combined that estate with two others that have been disused for some time, minor houses that angered king Sorono's father, who had the entire family wiped out. Those grounds are disused, their manors in ruins. But one third of your estate is working, and producing income."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini made a face. "Two ruined manors, and our own has had a hereditary manager for three hundred years. How does the current manager feel about having us come in to curb his freedoms?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's a good question, and not one I can answer right now. The manager would have been answerable to the king, or one of his delegates. But my guess is that pretty much from day to day he would have been able to behave very much as a law unto himself."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's what I feared. Suddenly along we come, curb his freedoms, perhaps find he's been embezzling large sums of money, or at least behaving like a petty noble, and we have some problems."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "One of many things we'll have to look into tomorrow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We contented ourselves with a general scouting of the layout, and the lie of the land. We also picked several spots to study the details, with the idea that we could walk through shadow to those points if the need arose. Our dreaming bodies were active in any sifting of shadows, we did not need to be present in our physical bodies. The manor house was a flattened H shape situated on the side of a small hill, with extensive gardens that appeared to be well maintained. Around the hill farmland spread out, dotted here and there with villages. The unpaved road led from the hills to the manor, and then on to Maldana. A second unpaved road led down to the beach, while other smaller tracks lead to various villages.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The two ruined manors had been looted of anything of value, then burned. Trees in the orchards had been cut down, statues, fountains and anything breakable had been smashed. They were sad sites. Both ruins were situated near streams.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "Those streams remind me of another iron I have in the fire. Most of the cities have poor water quality, unless they have aqueducts to bring fresh water from the mountains. The quantity of water that can be brought from the mountains is limited. Tarantia has enough for a much larger population, but most of the cities have a shortage. It is especially a problem in the coastal cities. I would like to build some large dams to store water. But I am also aware that we need to do something about the city sewerage, most of which simply flows directly into the nearest river."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It isn't a simple problem, is it?" I commented. "We can't deal with everything, but if it is a problem, we set up a working committee to look into it. Can you still build aqueducts and paved roads? You haven't lost the techniques or the engineers?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, there was a time when that was a danger, but construction and water engineers are plentiful. Cartographers are another story."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, sewerage treatment should be a priority. I don't know what you do now, but any treatment is better than none."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There is no sewerage treatment. Older areas do not have flushing toilets, instead a cart comes around to collect cans of sewerage. Those are emptied into the river as far as I know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, so you need a sewerage treatment works. Not so hard for the cans, except they have to be trucked to the treatment area. I don't know what you do with flushing toilets, you really need pumps to pump the waste through pipes to the treatment plant. Septic tanks might be a partial answer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is that two or perhaps three different irons to manage?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Take your pick. I'd make sewerage treatment one iron, and sources of clean water a second."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  The next day we were up about sunrise. There was three hours till the ship sailed with the tide, but since Tarantia operated on natural light, everyone was up with the sun. As nobles, we did not have to pack, though Nalini and I packed our own back packs to ensure that nothing was missed. Servants would take our luggage to the docks, all we had to do was be there before the ship sailed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After breakfast, Prospero took the rest of us in the direction of the docks, but we rode past and on to the naval shipyards. Here there were a number of wooden vessels in various stages of repair, and several on the process of being built. Prospero greeted the guards, and lead us through the yards to a large shed by the water. Beside the shed a large schooner was on blocks and being refitted. The first thing that I noticed was a tall smokestack rising out of the wheelhouse on the aft deck.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero led us on board. "In a standard clipper, the officers' quarters are on the aft deck. A schooner has the officers' quarters forward of here, the steering deck is usually empty, and the area underneath is used for storage. This is a pilot project to install a steam engine in a ship."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He led us down some stairs in front of the wheelhouse, warning "Mind your heads, there isn't a lot of room down here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The area beneath the wheelhouse was lit by several oil lamps. On the left side a copper tank was bolted to the wooden floor, on the right hand side there was a hopper filled with chunks of wood. In the center, two men in grimy clothes were working on a partially dismantled steam engine. At the back there were some large gears connected to two iron rods that disappeared through the floor.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero indicated the rods "These drive the screws at the back. There are some problems with fitting a steam engine to a ship. We had to specially strengthen this area, because of the weight and the driving forces involved. How's it going lads?" he directed his enquiry to the two men.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One was a blond haired man in his early thirties, the other a grizzled bear of a man in his late fifties. Prospero was probably younger than both of them. The elder ran his hands through his hair. "Well your lordship, the salt water causes considerable corrosion and deposits salts inside the boiler. The salt deposits we can handle, the twin boiler arrangement means that one can be cleaned while the other is used. What ever alloy is used in your smaller engine we cannot duplicate. Yours does not corrode. She'll sail but you'll need to refit the boilers regularly, and that'll not be cheap. Other than that, we need better ventilation when the boilers on, it grows uncomfortably hot at times."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "We'll use this ship to test how a steam ship should be designed, the next one will be built for the engine. Oh, this is baron Laredo and his son Marko. The baron is the head of the engineer's guild." He introduced the rest of us. "We must find out how to duplicate the allow that is used."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What is the other engine you are talking about?" I asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, I brought a small steam engine from your world, and fitted it to a small fishing smack. It's range is somewhat limited by the need to carry fuel, but we use seawater in the boiler. It works, it does not corrode, though as Laredo said, we do get salt deposits. Rupert, you won't believe this, it will sail at a steady twenty four miles per hour. I've no doubt that with a bigger engine it could sail perhaps twice as fast."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert whistled. "We have experimented with steam ships, but the best we have been able to manage is about nine knots, I think that is ten miles per hour. Faster than the average sailing ship, but not by much. On rivers they can use fresh water, which doesn't cause too much of a corrosion problem, but salt water probably does corrode the iron boilers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Something was working in the back of my mind. "Iron does corrode. I think you need to make the boilers from stainless steel."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were blank looks from the Aquilonians and prince Rupert. Prospero asked in English "I know there is difference between iron and steel, but I'm not sure what that is. I know your kitchen sink is stainless steel, my boiler looks the same. What is it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, we might need to do some research to answer that fully. Steel is highly pure iron that has carbon in it to make it stronger. You need a blast furnace, a Bessemer converter, which blows air through the furnace so that all the impurities burn off. You need a small percentage of carbon to make the metal stronger. A steel sword is strong enough to shatter an iron one."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero interrupted. "I received a very odd mental picture with that word Bessemer converter. I don't think we have anything like it here, I'll have to investigate it when I return to your shadow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Laredo shook his head. "It is odd talking with you sorcerers, some of what you say is pictures in my head. I think I know what you mean. Iron must be heated to yellow heat, packed in charcoal and have air blown through it to make steel for a sword. But if what I saw is correct, you would heat it till it runs like water, and blow air through that. I doubt that stone would withstand such heat."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There's a chalky stone called dolomite that is used to line the furnace. But we are running beyond my knowledge. Stainless steel is special steel which has had um..." I paused to think "chromium and vanadium added, I think. Prospero, we'll chase that up when we get back to earth. It doesn't corrode. A question, why use iron for the boiler, and not copper?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Laredo smiled "Iron is stronger, it withstands the pressure better. Copper would split."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, a suggestion for you to try. Take your iron boiler and pipes, and coat them inside with copper. If the coating is complete, the copper will protect the iron from corroding. Another suggestion is to coat the inside with zinc. It will corrode even faster than iron, but while there is some zinc in the seawater, the iron will be protected. You would need to recoat the boiler regularly if you use zinc."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Laredo looked at his son. Marko replied "We should be able to make a copper boiler that fits inside the iron one. The pipes would be a challenge though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Laredo then added "Then the iron supplies the strength, the copper inside protects. That might just work. I'll put people on that today." He scratched his head. "What was that you said about zinc?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, I think it's called sacrificial protection. If you have two metals in close contact, like bolted together or melted on, then the one that corrodes more easily will corrode first. If you keep replacing the first metal before it corrodes away, the second is protected. I'd need to look that up, that's all I know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Laredo nodded. "I will see Darko today, he is the chief metallurgist. Perhaps he will know something about this, and perhaps he can experiment with the making of stainless steel. You sorcerers have brought exciting times for us with all this new engineering information."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded and replied "We have information that you don't, but we don't have all the answers. Our engineering is just where yours would be in say another three hundred years without our help."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We took out leave, and Prospero led us into the shed. Here there were assorted parts from several steam engines, and chocked on wooden blocks was a small boat perhaps twenty five feet long. Bolted to the back of the boat was a small steam engine driving two brass propellers. "This is the first steam powered ship in all of Aquilonia!" Prospero announced proudly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert looked in puzzlement. "Where is the paddle wheel? How is it pushed along?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero pointed to the brass propellers. "These do the work. They are far more efficient than a paddle wheel. We could never reach such high speeds otherwise."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert shook his head. "I would never have believed it. You have solved a problem that has bothers us with steam ships. If Danny solves the boiler problem as well, then an age of a steam navy will descend on England. I know we must catch the tide soon, but later I would like complete information about how that propeller works."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero laughed. "I have the very thing." He walked over to a cupboard, and took out a toy boat. "This I bought in Danny's world. It is a child's toy, but it uses a small steam engine to power these two propellers here. We'll take it with us. I used this as the idea behind my first steam powered boat." He indicated the boat on blocks. "The two propellers on this boat were also brought from Danny's world, but those on the boat outside we manufactured here. The entire steam engine is Aquilonian."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded. "I gathered it was local manufacture, that's why it's iron and not stainless steel. That's what you should be doing, developing local technology when ever you can, and not relying on imported goods."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "Electronic goods are another matter, but steam power and metallurgy is something we have the basis for, and can build on."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We left then, and headed back to the docks to board our ship for the journey to Bendora estate.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 \tab \tab \tab \tab ###}}