{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Cambria-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi284\ri-597\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32\b1\i0 Chapter}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  8}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The ship was three masted, but not square rigged, the sails pointed fore and aft like those of a typical yacht. This meant the boat could be sailed much closer to the wind than a typical square-rigger, and could make better speed in most situations. The sea journey took about twenty hours, which meant we averaged just over ten Aquilonian miles per hour. I cannot be more precise, the Aquilonians do not know the distance accurately. By road the journey to the port of Arana has been measured and is known to be about two hundred and forty five Aquilonian miles. The sea journey is possibly a little shorter, but lacking satellite tracking and global positioning, no one really knows. It is known to be about a day's sailing, that is enough for the average Aquilonian.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 On board ship, there is not a lot to do as a passenger, except watch the shoreline go past slowly, talk, eat, or sleep. Our dog spent the first few hours of the voyage wandering around the ship, stopping every few meters to look over the side at the water, then moving on to see if the view was any different. After a time, she curled up in the shade near us, and went to sleep.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert was no sailor, but he was knowledgeable enough to know that ships of his world were square rigged. He and Prospero discussed the relative merits of the square rigging versus schooner rigging, a discussion we listened to but did not contribute much. According to Prospero, square rigging had been used briefly in the past, but they had found schooner rigging to be both faster in most winds and better able to sail into the wind, and now square rigging was very much obsolete.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Passenger cabins were toward the stern of the ship. The cabins were small but adequate. The bed was really only big enough for one person, of two friendly people. There was a small table with a single bench style seat against the wall. Our packs could be stowed underneath the bed, there was a small closet for hanging clothes, but there was little other luggage space.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were four toilet cubicles in the stern of the ship for use by officers and passengers, they were on the seaward side of the bathing room. The bathing room itself was communal, with three large tubs that could be filled, along with several dozen buckets that could be used for personal ablutions. There were gratings that drained out into the sea, I could imagine the floor being awash with seawater in rough weather.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a small dining room where the passengers and officers ate together. The food was fairly plain, but there was copious alcohol. Nalini and I stuck with the bread and cheese, plus fruit, there wasn't any other vegetarian fare.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 This was a passenger ship intended to carry nobles, I shuddered to think what an ordinary ship might be like. Nalini and I supposed the floating palaces of our day would have to wait until the steam powered liner was invented, and wooden hulls gave way to steel.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We spent most of the daylight hours on deck, the weather was fair, and the deck was roomier than our cabin. A coastal cruise sounds romantic, but the realities were something of a disappointment.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As night fell, we sailed on, and I was relieved to see lighthouses stationed along the coast. I know cruise ships back home sail through the night, but they have navigation instruments, while this ship had little more than a compass and some coastal charts.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was also a common room where the passengers could congregate if they wished. All of us gravitated there after dinner. Prospero and Rupert fell to talking about steam power and its applications, and they talked for hours. The four of us began playing mahjong, much to the interest of several other passengers. There could be a market for mahjong sets, provided we could arrange for the instructions to be translated into Aquilonian.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Without coffee we tired earlier than usual, though the sea air may have had something to do with that. Aquilonians in general are early risers and early retirers, no doubt partly due to the absence of electric light. Candlelight and oil-light tend to promote sleepiness. Nalini and I snuggled up and slept soundly and well, despite the hardness and narrowness of our bed. Nalini believes that maybe it was because of it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Not long after dawn the ship began making its way into the harbor at Arana. Part of the port was still in shadow, but the higher buildings and those on the hill gleamed whitely in the early morning sun. There were a number of tall masted sailing ships tied up at the docks, while several more sailed toward the docks.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We furled the sails and dropped anchor before we reached the docks. Rowboats took ropes from the ship to the docks, and then the ship was laboriously hauled against the docks by a team of men. The process took a while, but with only sails for motive power, and without tugboats this was probably the only way to bring the ship into her birth.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Finally the ship was secured to the wharf, and the gangplank let down. Prospero pointed out a reception committee waiting for us. I groaned inwardly. "I guess this means I have to give a speech?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, and you will have to spend time being polite to people you don't know." He chuckled in reply. "That will be the mayor, and the others will be the leading dignitaries from the city. You will be the king's representative for the region, as of now, you are their boss, and they are your delegates for the king's authority. Collectively you will be responsible for the good order of the region."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am still not clear what my responsibilities are. You haven't briefed us yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, but I'm planning to spend the next few days with you to brief you and show you how I would do things. Essentially you are the chief administrator, similar to the mayor of the city, except that your responsibilities are the entire region. You will need to arrange briefing meetings with the each of the town councils while you are here. But as I see it, you are the person who ensures that the roads are maintained, the laws obeyed, new laws made known, taxes collected and sent to the king's treasury. You are the final appeal for decisions, excepting the king himself. You will set directions, make decisions that your underlings cannot, but otherwise you leave the day to day running of the region to your underlings. You aren't a lawyer and you aren't a judge, but a judge may refer matters to you for advice. This area has been largely running itself for some time now, so unless there are problems that we don't know about, you can leave the councils to run things."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So who looked after this region before?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Technically it was Amrik, but in practice it was a committee of the mayors, who act as your advisors. I would leave the committee as it stands, but you take the head position. You also have a duty to attend the parliament or send a deputy. Not everyone does of course."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The mayor was a rather portly man with a florid face and a tendency to sweat. Prospero introduced Nalini and me, whereupon the mayor welcomed us fulsomely, and ushered us into waiting carriages. I think he wanted to sit in the carriage with Nalini and me except that Prospero got in and with Paula took up the available seats. The mayor was relegated to the carriage with Rupert and Liz.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were crowds of people thronging the streets to watch us drive past, and more people in the city square where we alighted. A stand had been set up on one side, with shade and chairs. City dignitaries occupied the back rows. Prospero, Paula, Rupert and Liz were shown to front row seats on one side, while Nalini and I were shown to front row seats on the other side. The mayor stood at the podium and gave a welcoming speech.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It would be my turn soon. I wondered just how far the translation spell would carry. Nalini linked with me, and we did out best to bolster the power of the spell so that the assembled crowd would be able to understand me.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The mayor walked a fine line between being happy we were here and being unhappy about it. The gist of his speech was something along the lines that it had been an honor to be looked after directly by the king, but the king was a busy man. Now the region had its own noble house, and could stand with pride amongst the other regions. The region had many longstanding traditions, which they all hoped would continue to be upheld by their new lord. They felt it a unique honor that the king had chosen one of his favorites to be their lord. He finished off by welcoming us again then called on duke Prospero to introduce us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero stood and gave a simple speech. He told how we had saved both the king's and his own life, and had been instrumental in defeating the followers of the evil serpent god. We had been granted the Bendora estates as our fief in token gratitude. He went on briefly about how we were working directly with himself and Amrik to bring in the parliament of the people to ensure that the government was responsive to the people's needs. Finally he introduced us, and then called on me to give a speech.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I thanked them for their welcome. I went on to say that I was looking forward to working with the city mayors in the administration of the region. I stated that although new administrations often took a broom and swept away the trappings of the old regime, I did not intend to do so unless there was good reason, and then only after I had discussed it with the mayors. I also said that I would be looking for ways to make the region a jewel in the crown of Aquilonia, and that since I had the king's ear, I intended to use that to the region's advantage. Then I went on to talk briefly about parliamentary government, and how it could not work unless the people made it work. I spoke briefly about how the new government was based on the concept that all citizens had equal rites before the law, and that the rich had a duty of care towards those less fortunate than themselves, that the strong must defend the weak, and not prey upon them. I finished with a variation on Kennedy's famous words: "A great ruler once said "Do not ask what your country can do for you, rather ask what you can do for your country." If all of us think like that then Aquilonia will be a fair and just place to live. I would like our region to set an example to the rest of Aquilonia. Thank you, it is an honor to be here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The mayor took the podium again, and thanked us once more. Then he reminded everyone that there was to be a reception and dance in our honor that Saturday in the town hall, and that the formalities were over.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were then requested to get back in our carriages, and were conveyed to someone's mansion, possibly the mayor's, possibly one of the leading merchants'. There we were offered refreshments in the ornate floral garden, and given a chance to meet the city elders and the city judges along with the commander of the garrison. Each of the larger cities in the region had their own company of the king's legionnaires, of which I was now the region commander, a brevet general to coin a rank.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero stuck with me, while Paula stuck with Nalini. I kept in mental contact with Nalini, but since we were kept busy meeting people we had little time for private conversations.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It seemed to Nalini and I that if we took this position seriously, there would be quite a lot of work for both of us. We could see the wisdom in Prospero's edict about letting the underlings run their own little areas, and simply coordinating and setting policy directions. The underlings would no doubt prefer it that way too.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero made a point of ensuring I was introduced to everyone, I let each one know that if there were any problems with the way the region was being administered, my door would be open. I avoided committing myself on any issue either. A number of people sought my thoughts on particular issues of interest to themselves, I told each of them that once I was briefed on the facts of the issue I would form an opinion.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I also asked people how the region was currently being run. I soon found out that each of the major cities had their mayor and their council of elders who met to met to administer the city, and nothing else. The mayor was concerned about my plans for administering the region.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I replied "I will be feeling my way for a while. What I have in mind is regular meetings between the mayors of all the cities and myself where we can air issues that are bigger than a single city. I will offer advice on issues within a city, so maybe I should attend your council meetings from time to time. However, I intend to let the city councils continue to run the cities as they have, provided of course that I don't find evidence that there is corruption and bribery happening."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It was a relief when we finally got away. Our party had swelled, we were accompanied by twelve soldiers mounted on horseback. We rode our own horses which had come over on the ship, As we rode toward the garrison town of Maldana Prospero remarked "I'm impressed Danny! You handled yourself remarkably well. You avoided committing to any course of action before you have been briefed, you let them think that their cozy little arrangements will be left alone, yet you said the right things about policy directions, coordinating the administration and you dropped a hint about corruption."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Time spent watching all those politicians on TV was obviously well spent! I was trying to avoid saying anything that could be used against me later. I'd prefer to find out who does what before I make enemies. But I did feel a bit out of my depth."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled. "So now you know how I felt when first I came to your shadow earth. You seem to have found your feet though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is it just my job, or can Nalini share the load?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, traditionally it is the head of the noble house, but I see no reason why you and Nalini cannot share the work between yourselves."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good, we'll share the workload."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But don't make it too hard on yourselves, leave the day to day running to the town councils."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh I intend to, otherwise this could be a full time job acting as administrator for the region. I want things to run smoothly without having to spend all my time turning the wheels. I think I'll concentrate on areas that aren't working as well as they should."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "On a more serious note, I am sure you will find evidence of crime and corruption. Many officials will have taken advantage of no overlord to feather their own nests. This region pays less tax than we think it should, but you cannot just rush in and change things. As you know, you have to find out first, and gain people's trust."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What do we do if we find corruption? Chances are the local judge might be in on it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded "Good point. If you find evidence, you'd best let Amrik or myself know, and then we'll take it from there. We'd have to have them up before one of the leading judges. Once that happens, you could find that everyone here becomes your enemy, even the garrison commanders. I would advise do nothing hasty, you want these people on your side if possible."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded. "I prefer to take time to decide what is the correct thing to do, and to give people time to save face. Most matters aren't life and death anyway."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Saving face is important. You may find that if you put someone on notice to mend their ways, with a threat of the king's justice, and allow them to save face, they might do what is needed. But you would need to introduce all those checks and balances you are so fond of to ensure they don't return to their old ways."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Can a leopard change its spots? Can corrupt officials really mend their ways? We really need to send them for re-education, but we don't have anything prepared. It's king Charles and the Puritans again. They have attitudes that are inappropriate for the society, they need to have those attitudes changed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Doesn't the term re-education have distasteful undertones in English?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, it's been used by totalitarian governments across the world as a euphemism for locking people up, treating them badly, and brainwashing them into supporting the regime. I'd rather we did things slowly, so that people are willing to follow where we lead."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was nodding. "We are the leaders of Aquilonian society, we have to lead by example. There is always a broad range of attitudes out there. But you people have introduced a host of new ideas that we all have to come to terms with. We are all in need of re-education."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Re-education only works to a certain extent. In fact, I read somewhere that the experts think it takes three generations for so called re-education to have an effect on the bulk of the population. They get to where the opinion makers are now, so of course the opinion makers have moved on over those three generations. It can't be done to fast, and the leaders can't move to far ahead, because that's when society starts to fragment and fall apart."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was thoughtful. "Do you know Danny, it's statements like that which prove to me that you and Nalini are well suited for this. Your education system has taught you many things that we are still working out. Paula often amazes me at her depth of understanding of the consequences of actions, and how people will react, yet she does not consider herself to be well educated by your world's standards. You may take it for granted that everyone knows something, but often that is not the case. Schooling is not compulsory here. Many people cannot read or write, and many who can have only two years schooling. Artisans learn by being apprenticed to other artisans. Merchants and nobles may have four or five years schooling only, unless they train for one of the professions. I have only seven years schooling. I wanted to train for engineering, my father wanted me to learn how to manage the estate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I guess that once your brother died, you became the old duke's heir, so he wanted you to learn what you needed for that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "True, but I am learning much more now from your world, with Paula's help. For example, take accounting. We keep records, we employ scribes whose job it is to write down records of what happens, money we receive, money we spend. But at best that is like a day journal. Paula has taught me what she knows about accounting and bookkeeping. It is so simple, yet it is such a revolutionary concept. I want to introduce basic accounting as something for all financial records. We have trained a few of our scribes, and we have set up a simple accounting system using several books."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, that's great. I will look at doing the same with our estate. Are you planning to computerize at a later date?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I know computers would make it quicker, Paula could keep all the records herself, but I have seven scribes I pay to keep records, I am not about to sack them. They are all learning basic accounting. I might use them to train others in the public service. One of my projects is to take an accounting textbook, translate it into Aquilonian and print it for those who want to read it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero, I think you need about another fifty of you just to keep up with all your projects. How do you find time to visit us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I apply the same techniques my father taught me to use to manage the estate. I think you call it delegation. I investigate, get a project started, put some good people on it and let them go. Then I monitor their progress, provide guidance, but otherwise I let someone else do the work. I am a facilitator, coordinator and administrator. And that my friend is something you still need to learn. I know you do most of the things in your work yourself."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's because I don't have a hoard of underlings to do the work, plus most of what I do I enjoy the doing of. But I started the billing and bookkeeping service, Paula was hired to take up much of the workload, and so was Liz. I don't do any of that now, and the business has grown to the point where there are a couple of temps three days a week. If you'd stick around long enough, I'd get you to try your hand at things."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, I would like to learn about programming, and web pages and all that, but my English isn't good enough yet. I have learned to process words, and now Paula and I have set up a computer with an Aquilonian font I can do some things on a word processor. I will be teaching the scribes how to do that, then they can do some of their important work on the computer. But my secret is that my estate has a manager who runs it, and each of the towns in my region have their own council who look after that town."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Does a town also look after the villages around it, or just the town itself?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think in most cases, a town will only look after itself. You need to see that things needing to be done in villages or in between towns are done. You know, road maintenance and the like. The troops have the responsibility to catch highway robbers, but you would often need to give the commander directions." He smiled deprecatingly "We need a police force, we have the king's soldiers. I am aware of the difference in training, and one day we will set up a police force. Another iron in the fire."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think we need to find out who manages what, and draw up some sort of map so that the entire region is looked after, not just the towns. For example, a town council should be responsible for the roads around it, and the villages. I think I want a shire or regional council made up of representatives from the town councils. The soldiers can be for catching criminals and other tasks like that, but they aren't trained for detective work. I will look at setting up a special investigative group for solving crimes. We also need community based policing, but I think we can start with citizens as volunteers for a few hours per week. We'll see, Prospero. I want to listen to what the councils tell me, I want to start with their biggest problems, and work down. I need to set up some structure that ensures the whole region is covered."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We reached Maldana in time for a late lunch. As I've written before, the town is a garrison town, the main army base for the region is situated near by. Each town has its own company of soldiers whose usual duty is to help keep the peace, but the main body resides at Maldana. When I asked Prospero why the troops were here rather than the port which was the region's biggest town, he replied that it was either because the town is fairly central to the region, or because the Bendora estates are nearby and in the past the local noble would have maintained his own army.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The town itself is smaller than Arana, but they had made a point of prettying it up, with window boxes of flowers in many apartment windows, and a broad tree lined avenue that led to the city square which in turn was decorated by tubs of flowers. Being a garrison town, there are many establishments whose business is separating the soldiers from their cash, and the town itself has more of a brash, lively air to it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Again the town council greeted us, there were speeches and afterwards a meal. The mayor was a tall white haired man with sword calluses on his hand. He seemed genuinely happy to see us, and respectful in a military manner. The council was polite, and questioning to determine what our arrival would mean for the town, but the general populace seemed more friendly and cheered more loudly than they had at Arana.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I asked the young soldiers about it later. One of them responded shyly "Well sir, lot of folks here are connected with the army in one way or another. You're our regional commander, this is your town. Arana's got its port, it doesn't care about us soldiers, and its town council doesn't care for anywhere outside the town. But here in Maldana folks are happy their lord has finally come home."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "An' sir" another one added "We all heard how you saved king Amrik's life. You're a real soldier, not just a chair warmer. Er.. beggin' your pardon sir."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's all right soldier, I asked for your comments, you're free to give them in your own words."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I arranged for the mayor and the council to meet with me the next morning for a briefing session. Prospero suggested that they come to the manor, everyone agreed. I met with the real regimental commander, a solid man in his late forties, his hair shot with gray, who asked me if I wanted to inspect the troops. I agreed, on proviso that he provide me with a separate briefing from the one the council would give. He was on the town council, and would be present at the briefing tomorrow, but I wanted a separate briefing from him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Certainly sir" he agreed. "There are some matters that are of a military nature that might be best discussed away from the council."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's what I had in mind. I want to find out what the community leaders think are the problems they face, what they would like to see happen. The army base is a separate community, it should be treated as such. But I also need to know who is responsible for what in the region. I would like the entire region to run smoothly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "How many of the council are retired soldiers, and of those, how many are from outside the region?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Five are retired soldiers, plus myself. None of us are from the region originally, though we have all been here for years. The mayor was the regimental commander before me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good, I believe the old soldiers will be less parochial than the locals. We had a distinct impression that the Arana town council would have preferred that Earl Danny not have been appointed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The commander nodded. "That could easily be so. There are suggestions that many in Arana grow fat on bribes, and that much of the king's taxes sticks to their palms. We've always been the poor cousin to the other towns, but we pride ourselves on being honest and loyal to the king. Many residents here are soldiers and their families, or retired soldiers, they are mostly more patriotic than the civilians."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Corruption is a serious issue, one we will be looking into. Initially I will be leaving things as they are, but as we find things out, changes will be made."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Eventually we got away, and headed for the manor. The commander assigned a squad on horseback to escort us, and let our previous escort return to their accommodation in Arana. We were all on horseback, we made good time over the five miles that separated Maldana from the manor, and arrived there in the mid afternoon.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The road from Maldana to Bendora manor is not paved. We made our way through one village halfway between Maldana and Bendora, but did not stop there. Some people pointed, others stood and watched us ride past, while two small children waved. Once past the village the farmland ended, and the forest took over. We forded a stream, then the road climbed toward the manor.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were more formalities here, but fortunately these were brief. The guards saluted us as we passed through the main gates. There were extensive grounds, the area between the main gate and the manor was given over to ornamental gardens with manicured trees, flower beds and colorful shrubs. When the drive reached the manor house it circled a large fountain in the bottom half of the H. The house itself was brick that had been cement rendered and then whitewashed. The roof was of bright red terracotta tiles. There was no guttering. The casement windows were made of small diamond panes, and the frames themselves had been painted black. There were rosebushes growing in beds around the house walls, some true bushes, others the climbing variety, trained on trellises attached to the walls. It was spring, the roses were in flower, and the whole area was a riot of red blooms and heady with their perfume.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We had a welcoming committee. It seemed that all the servants and staff at the manor were standing outside in a long line to greet us. Two men stood in front of the line, both in their forties. One was slim, clean-shaven but with long dark hair shot through with gray, the other was muscular, with hair and beard cropped short. The first had that air of a butler, looking on all and sundry with a tinge of condescension and amusement, but always impeccably polite. The second looked more like a retired soldier.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We reined in close to the two men. Grooms rushed over to take the reins and hold the horses for us to dismount. The long haired man bowed low, and announced "My noble lords and ladies, I am Wilomo, the major domo of the house. On behalf of all the staff, I bid you welcome to Bendora estate. May I enquire which of you gentlemen is Earl Daniel?" He managed to sound obsequious, bored and condescending at the same time.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were about to dismount, but I inclined my head. "I am Earl Daniel. This is my wife the lady Nalini, this gentleman here is duke Prospero, with him is his fianc_e lady Paula, here we have lady Elizabeth, cousin to Lady Nalini, and last but by no means least we have Prince Rupert of the Rhine."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We dismounted and gave our horses into the care of the waiting grooms. "May we enquire who this gentleman is?" I indicated the bearded man beside him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He is no gentleman sir" the bearded man glared at him "he is but the former manager of these estates come to pay his respects and hand over his records." Wilomo's face said it would be good riddance too.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I see. Would you describe yourself as a gentleman?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think he could see where I was leading. "I.. er.. that is to say, I am the major domo, I er.. am normally accorded the epithet of gentleman."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then perhaps we can also be polite to your companion and accord him the epithet of gentleman as well?" The bearded man smiled at this, though he still looked a little grim.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo was discomforted, but tried not to let that show. "Certainly sir, I was not intending my words to be impolite, but merely taking the correct usage of the word gentleman, under which nobles are gentlemen and gentlewomen, while the rest of us are not."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I smiled back. "Correct usage of words is important, I agree, but we must exercise care that when we use words correctly we do not offend others. I know you intended no offense, and I am sure none was taken. Now, could you please introduce me to your companion?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Certainly sir" his composure was back. "This is Maraldo, the former manager of the estates. With your permission, he will present his records and keys to you this afternoon."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you." I turned to the bearded man. "Maraldo, why are you the former manager? Should I not be talking with the current manager?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo replied "Sir, Maraldo was managing the estate until your appointment. Now he is not needed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I sighed and looked exasperated, biting back a sarcastic remark. I managed to be polite. "Thank you Wilomo, but I was asking Maraldo." I turned back to Maraldo. "I will talk with you in detail later, after we have freshened ourselves. But I'd like to know why you are the former manager."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well sir, now that you've been appointed, you won't be needing me anymore. But after I present my records, I would appreciate if we could discuss my entitlements."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Who says I won't be needing you? I will be spending a lot of time away from here, I think I need a manager." I spread my hands. "I don't know anything about you or any of the staff, I have no idea whether you are a good manager or a bad one." I turned to include the major domo. "Okay, let me make this clear. I don't want any staff sacked without my prior approval. For now, I will take you all on trust, assuming that you are all good and honest workers. Everyone who was employed before I arrived should still be employed, unless there are good reasons why they should not be re-hired. I mean reasons like complete incompetence, gross misconduct. So Maraldo, would you like to retain your job as estate manager?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 His eyes widened in surprise. "Yes sir, I would."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And you're neither incompetent nor guilty of gross misconduct?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Certainly not sir! I am an honest man, I used to be a centurion, and quarter master until I retired from the army to take up this position."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good. Well Wilomo, can you see any reason for not rehiring Maraldo?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Er.. no sir. He was a good manager of the estate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then you're rehired as estate manager Maraldo. For now, your employment conditions are the same as before. Does that cause any problems to either of you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well sir" Wilomo began "There is the minor detail of the cottage"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right, how about we discuss the details after we get through the formalities? Who was responsible for hiring and firing and setting employment conditions?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The two looked at one another. "Well sir, we both were..." Wilomo began.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo continued "We made all the hiring and firing decisions jointly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And so you set your own conditions as well?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They nodded "Yes sir."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, we'll discuss all that later, somewhere more private. You two are happy to work together?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They looked at one another and nodded again. "Yes sir."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, let's go meet the staff. Later I want to talk with each of you separately, and maybe some of the other senior staff. I want to find out who is responsible for what, so I know who I should talk to if I want something done."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sir, normally you would speak with me regarding any domestic matters, and Maraldo regarding other matters. But mention anything to either of us, we will inform the other if it is something he should know about."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right, for starters, we all need accommodation. Duke Prospero and his lady require a suite, Prince Rupert and his lady require a suite. Secondly, tomorrow morning, the councilors from Maldana are dropping in to brief me on things in their town. We need to make appropriate arrangements, they'll need lunch, we need to locate a room where we can all meet, we need a scribe for taking notes, all that sort of stuff. Thirdly, over the next few days we expect a number of visitors to drop in from Tarantia, I'm not sure how many, perhaps as many as twelve, and I'm not sure when. We need to make sure we can put them up and feed them. Fourthly, I want to arrange for the councilors from each town in the region to come here and brief me on affairs in their town. I want each council to arrive on different days, again we will need to make appropriate arrangements for their visits. Apart from that, we'd all like to freshen up, we've had a long day."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<I think we need a personal assistant to organize our days.>> I thought to Nalini.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<If we haven't got one, we can hire one. But they may be hard to find out here.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<That's what I thought. What do you make of these two?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<There's something they're not telling us. I think something has spoiled their friendship.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Then we'll have to dig into it and sort it out.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo was suddenly professional. "Certainly sir, I will see to that as soon as the formalities are done.".}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And I will see to my part." Maraldo added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We finally went to meet the staff, drawn up in their line. There was some sort of hierarchy, we started with the head chef and the head gardener, worked our way down to scribes, chamber maids and finally scullery maids, grooms, groundsmen and the like.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Then it was speech time again. I kept it short. I thanked them all for greeting me then said something like "You may be looking nervously at me, wondering what I will be like, but here I am in my first day on the job, also feeling nervous. I would like us all to get to know each other better, I would like us all to be one big happy family. Let me reassure all of you that there will be no sackings. But also, if you have problems that you feel I could help you solve, or you are unhappy with conditions here for any reason, my door will be open. I want all of you to feel free to discuss any problems with me. Don't assume that I won't be interested. Any problem that makes you unhappy or affects you work affects all of us. If my wife or I can help in some way, we will be happy to. We welcome the chance to get to know you all."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  The estate had no running water, and hot water for bathing had to be hauled from the stream and then heated. That water was being heated, but it would be some time before we could bathe. The head housekeeper apologized profusely to us, explaining that we hadn't been expected until evening. We let Rupert and Liz have what hot water there was, and Nalini and I wound up talking with senior staff while waiting. Prospero and Paula joined us, mainly because they could offer us advice.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 First up was the senior chef. He was solid looking man in his early thirties, with a waxed moustache and little goatee. It transpired that like most of the staff, he had commenced work here only two months ago. Before that he had been just one of a number of chefs at the palace.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It may be a bit early for you to say how you enjoy working for us, but I would like your opinion of your kitchens, the dining areas, your staff. What's wrong, what's good, what could be improved."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He was sitting in our study, looking a little uncomfortable, and nursing a glass of wine. "Well your lordships, your ladyships" he began diffidently. "Er.. the staff all seem good and hardworking. I must confess there had been little to do in the way of cooking over the past two months other than prepare food for the staff."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Please, just call me sir if you want to be deferential. I find being called 'Your Lordship' puts too much distance between us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes your ... er ... yes sir."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So there has been nothing to challenge your culinary skills yet. Now, if we were to ask you to exercise your skills, is the kitchen up to it, or does it need improving? Can you get all the ingredients you need?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well sir, to be honest, not all the ingredients we need can be obtained locally. I have had long talks with the head gardener, and we have set up a herb garden and vegetable garden that will enable us to grow almost everything here, but unfortunately most plants cannot be harvested yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded. "That is commendable. I have grown vegetables myself, I know they take time. Can you write?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked surprised, but nodded. "Yes sir, a senior chef must know how to write."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "My apologies, I am ignorant sometimes. Could you give us a list of things that cannot be obtained locally, I have in mind arranging to buy them in Tarantia."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "Normally you would have this arranged through the major domo, but as a gourmet myself, I would like to ensure that your master chef has the ingredients he needs. I believe I know the best places to obtain many ingredients, and master Vivaldo you may know better places than I do for some ingredients. So please include where you would recommend we obtain the ingredients, and what quantity to buy." Then he smiled at me. "Sorry Danny, this is your show, I'm just offering advice."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's fine, things are a little different here from what we're used to. What about the kitchens master Vivaldo? Are they up to the standard you would like?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They are sir. Duke Prospero himself arranged my hiring, and we discussed then that the kitchens should be renovated. I was given a free hand in remodeling the kitchens and I spent the first month here organizing that. Your kitchens are the equal of any in Tarantia, it is a joy to work there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good. Thank you Prospero, You should have said you hired the staff."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, but I didn't hire any except the head chef. I instructed Maraldo and Wilomo that they should hire staff for the estate. I'm a gourmet, remember? I thought a top class chef and decent kitchens were a must. The kitchens even have running water, though it must be hauled in buckets to the tank. I would like to arrange a steam or electric pump and install decent plumbing, but now you are the master of the estate, it will be your decision."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I chuckled "I think I need to know what income this estate produces so I know what we can afford. But plumbing I would place high on the list of must haves." I turned back to my chef. "Well master Vivaldo, I won't keep you much longer. Two more questions. Firstly, what are your employment conditions, and are you happy with them? I plan to institute an annual review of each employee's employment conditions with a view to determine whether they are still adequate, or whether they need improving."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked a little surprised at that. "I am happy with my employment conditions," he responded. "I am paid the same as a senior chef in any noble house in Tarantia, here I have my own cottage for my wife and children. I believe the lifestyle is better here, though there are times when my wife misses the city."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded. "We will be away from the estate for weeks at a time. I am sure we could arrange for you and your good wife to visit Tarantia from time to time when we are away and keep abreast of the latest recipes. Perhaps you could even supervise the purchase of ingredients you need."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "You wife might like to take the opportunity to keep up with the latest fashions, or visit her parents."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Vivaldo looked pleasantly surprised. "That is very kind of you sir, lady."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "What about education for your children? Do they have the same opportunities as they would in the city?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well my lady, I will train my son to be a chef, and I will teach him to read and write. He might learn quicker in Tarantia, but there is a teacher or two in Maldana."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini turned to the rest of us. "I'd like all the children on the estate to learn to read and write. Even the adults who can't should be offered the opportunity. We should have a teacher on staff." She made a note on her writing pad.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded "I should have thought of that. You should see the major domo to arrange that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Speaking of which" I commented "brings me to my second question. Master Vivaldo, how to find the staff here? Are any causing you problems? Do you get along well with Wilomo and Maraldo?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So far no problems, sir. Those two have been here for years, they recently had a falling out."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We thought that might be the case." Nalini commented. "Master Vivaldo, do you know why they had a falling out? Now we have rehired Maraldo, they must work together again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well your ladyship, I should not really say this, but" he leaned forward conspiratorially "I believe that Wilomo has a sixteen year old daughter, and that Maraldo recently got her with child. Wilomo was furious, and threatened to have Maraldo killed if he did not leave your employment immediately."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh dear, that complicates matters. What happened to the girl? Is Maraldo married?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I believe the girl is kept locked inside the cottage. Maraldo left last month, and then Wilomo gave his cottage to one of his relatives, she is the senior maid. Maraldo is not married, he is a retired soldier."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Does he love the girl? Does she love him? Would he marry her do you think?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well you ladyship, Maraldo is an old soldier with a soldier's ways, if you take my drift. He likes the girl, but I doubt he loves her. She must love him though. I think he would marry her if her father would let him."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This will take some delicate handling. Thank you for telling us master Vivaldo. Is there any other information like this that you know of?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not that I can think of right now, your ladyship. I dare say the wife will know more about these things. 'Twas she who told me about Maraldo and Katerina"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini nodded "We women often take more interest in personal matters. You must introduce me to your wife and children one day. I should like to get to know the families of all who work here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We finished our interview, we chatted idly until Vivaldo finished his wine, and then he was politely shown the door.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We spoke with Wilomo's sister in law, a plump middle aged woman who was the senior housekeeper. She was responsible for all the cleaning staff, chambermaids and the like. She had only joined the estate a month ago, moving into Maraldo's cottage with her husband and three children. Her daughters worked as maids, her son was an apprentice chef in our kitchens. Her main complaint was that some of the maids were lazy or dirty, but she was slowly curing them of those vices. She said nothing about Maraldo, except that "My brother in law says he is a coarse soldier. I had never seen him until today."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So you can tell us nothing about why he and your brother in law had a falling out?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Never mind, we will talk with each of them ourselves. We want to find out what happened, and see if we can get them to patch things up. If they are not friends, then it will not be in the best interests of the estate or the rest of the staff to have both of them working together."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She set her lips primly. "My lady, I've no doubt that you will find out soon enough that this Maraldo is a bad character. Then you'll see the wisdom of giving him his marching orders." She concluded with a note of triumph.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Next on the list was the major domo. Prospero had already explained to me that the major domo was responsible for everything that happened inside the house, including all the staff and finances, while the manager was responsible for everything that happened outside the house, including the ground staff, farm hands, and finances.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo entered, keen to show us around the house, but we suggested that could wait until later. "Please, take a seat Wilomo, we would prefer this to be less formal. Would you like a glass of wine?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you sir, that is most kind of you." Wilomo sat a little self-consciously. "However, I must decline, I never drink when I am on duty." He sat forward, waiting for us to begin.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Firstly, this isn't an inquisition, we just need to know a little about how this estate is run. I will ask you to give us a detailed briefing at a later date, for now we just want an overview."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very good sir." He nodded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We sat looking at each other for a few seconds, until it became obvious he wasn't about to start with his overview.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I believe that you are in charge of everything that happens inside the house, and that the manager is responsible for everything that happens outside?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Er.. more or less sir. I control all the staff who work inside the house, I am responsible for ensuring that there is sufficient money to pay wages, buy food and supplies, see that all the staff work hard and that the house is run efficiently, and that every wish of our lord and master is obeyed promptly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We nodded. "As I recall, the head chef is responsible for the kitchens, and the head housekeeper is responsible for the maids. What other staff do we have?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were a few. Apart from the cleaning staff and the kitchen staff, we had two seamstresses who were responsible for making and repairing clothes for the estate employees, a carpenter/cabinet maker who was responsible for any repairs to the house, and who could also make a variety of items, several scribes, a valet and a lady's maid, two butlers, one of whom was knowledgeable on wines, four bath house attendants, a coachman and five grooms, and four gardeners plus the head gardener. I may have forgotten one or two, and this list did not include farm hands who were the responsibility of the manager. There was also a squad of soldiers who acted as guards, but they were supplied by the army, and rotated on a weekly basis.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All this would be paid for out of the estate income? How big a percentage is it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo looked nonplussed. "I'm afraid I would have to have one of the scribes calculate that sir. The estates farms make much more than is required to pay for the staff or upkeep."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, we might look into the books tomorrow. Who keeps the financial records? Do you do that, or do the scribes do that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The scribes keep some of the financial records, I write some, and the manager also writes some."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And who authorizes spending money?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well sir, in your absence, I authorize spending for the house, the manager authorizes spending money for the farms. I presume you would want to authorize all expenditure yourself?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I might, but I am inclined to set a limit, anything under that limit is for you or the manager to authorize, anything over that limit I or Nalini would authorize. I think we will wait until we have been through your records before we make any further decision. I take it your records are separate from the manager's records?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes sir, they are."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was beginning to get a feeling that things needed a change. "Where do we keep the money? And can you tell me how much we have on the premises?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sir, there is a strong room in the cellar, the money is kept there. I don't think I could tell you exactly how much money is in there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Could the manager?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I don't think so sir."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In other words, they each kept their own records of what they spent, but no one ever reconciled it to the amount of money in the strong room. I commented as much, and added "Who has access to the strong room?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo was looking worried. No doubt it was crossing his mind that while I could not prove money was embezzled, neither could he prove it was not. "Er.. Maraldo and I each have a set of keys."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And you only need one set of keys? You don't have to have both of you, each with keys the other does not have, to open the door?" He shook his head. "Keys can be duplicated. When were the locks last changed?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, just two months ago sir, when it was known that you would be the new lord."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay, now I hope I have not made a mistake in re-hiring Maraldo. Is he honest, in your assessment?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked hopeful, as if he had thought I might suspect him. "I have no reason to believe he is not honest." He replied carefully.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And you are honest of course."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Certainly sir! You have my word on that!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And would Maraldo agree with your assessment of yourself?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The hope was gone from his eyes again. He was poker faced, careful. Quite possibly he was embezzling small amounts of money. "The man has no honor, but I believe he would tell you I am honest."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This isn't an inquisition Wilomo, but since neither you nor the manager are sure how much money is in the strong room, and since neither of you ever reconcile your records, neither of you can be sure that nothing has ever been stolen. I will give some thought about changing the system of records so that I can reconcile your records and know how much money is in the strong room. I would also like to ensure that two people are required to open the strong room door, which would make it harder for a thief to copy keys, since he would need keys from both of you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo nodded and looked relieved. "Certainly sir."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Where are the keys now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I have my set with me sir. They never leave my sight, even when I bathe!" He reached into his jerkin and pulled out a set of four keys. They were the older style keys with a long shaft and a simple head, and I knew the locks would be simple to pick.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I commented mentally to Nalini <<We'll have to change those locks to ones from home as soon as possible>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She agreed and made a note on her notepad. <<We could fetch some tonight. Do you need anything special to fit them?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<A battery powered drill and some screwdrivers. We have what we need in the garage back home.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Fine. We should get onto that tonight. I want to ask him about Maraldo.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Wilomo" Nalini said "The head housekeeper said that she thought Maraldo was not a good man, but she would not say why. You have said several times he has no honor, he is not a gentleman. You and he have worked together for several years, but recently you had a falling out. Could you please tell us what lead to this? And will it cause further problems in the future?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It.. it is a personal matter, your ladyship. But we can work together."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Wilomo, we will get to the bottom of this." Nalini sounded exasperated. "I am asking you to give me your side of it before we talk with Maraldo. I appreciate that you may feel embarrassed about a personal matter, but we are your liege lord and lady. You should trust us sufficiently to tell us about this yourself."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo sighed resignedly. "Very good your ladyship. I will say what I can, omitting nothing." He proceeded to tell us a tale about how Maraldo had been a friend, invited into his home to meet his wife and children, of how he had trusted Maraldo, until one day his wife had come to him and told him that his eldest daughter Katerina was with child, and that she named Maraldo as the father. Wilomo had flown into a rage, and threatened to have his relatives arrange for Maraldo to die. Wilomo was local, and had many relatives who would be glad to help him out in this. Maraldo was not local, and so had no relatives near by. Maraldo had left the same night, taking his records and keys with him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is a sad tale Wilomo." Nalini commented. "What did you do to your daughter?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would have flogged her, but she heard me arguing with Maraldo, and unbeknownst to us, she fled with him. They took lodgings somewhere in Arana. We have not seen her since, and my wife frets so."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero observed "By rights you can challenge him to a dual, but you may not arrange to kill him, that would be murder. Could you not consider marrying her to him?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But he betrayed our trust!" Wilomo was obviously upset, he had forgotten to say sir to Prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini held up her hand to stop Prospero responding. "An unwanted pregnancy is a sad thing. But a death would be even sadder. I take it that your daughter loves Maraldo?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo nodded. "She told her mother that she does."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And what of Maraldo, does he love the girl?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He says he does. He came by a week later, with a party of guards, and we spoke. He apologized, and offered to marry the girl. But I was hot with anger, and rebuffed him. He returned again this morning, with his records and keys, and offered again to marry her. I am still angry over that, but my wife thinks we should accept his offer, especially since he has been re-employed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "You have been wronged, but Maraldo has apologized, and offered restitution. It was unfortunate you had no lord to take this matter to when it occurred. Your lord would advise you that in law you may seek to punish the perpetrator, or you may seek restitution."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini held up her hand again. "Thank you Prospero, but could you wait a little? Wilomo, as Prospero said, you can seek punishment of Maraldo, but that would still leave your daughter pregnant, and deprive her of the man she says she loves. How old is she?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo had regained his composure. "She will turn sixteen next month, my lady."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And would you not be seeking to marry her off not long after that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes my lady, but there is little chance of that now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If she were not pregnant, who would you have married her to? A distant relative? A wealthy merchant? Or perhaps some artisan or soldier?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She could not have caught a wealthy merchant, or his son. The best she could hope for would be a craftsman."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And such a man would probably be much older than she in any case." Wilomo nodded. "Then if Maraldo had not abused your trust, he would in fact have been a suitable candidate?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, the wife and I had discussed that subject perhaps a month before. She is of the opinion that if Maraldo will marry her, then it is as good a match as we could hope for and it would keep the girl nearby."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then that would go a long way toward restitution, because the girl will have a husband to care for her. Is there anything else you think should happen before you would accept Maraldo as your son in law?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "With your permission, my lady, I think I should discuss this with my wife..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You are a wise man, Wilomo. But I take it that you and she are at least not opposed to your daughter marrying Maraldo?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is correct, my lady. My anger has cooled. He was my friend, and he is a good farm manager, so everyone says. He and I have talked this afternoon, though briefly. We have already decided we can work together."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Splendid! We will talk with Maraldo, you should go now and ask your wife if she will accept Maraldo as her daughter's husband."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you, my lady. There is still the matter of the manager's cottage."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And what is that Wilomo?" Nalini and I replied in unison.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked from one of us to the other. "Oh.. it has been given to the head housekeeper, and we have no spare cottage near by."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, we shall not throw the head housekeeper out. We shall have to find another cottage for Maraldo. You had best talk with your wife, we should talk briefly with Maraldo. If he is agreeable, we will summon you and your wife to talk with him here in our presence. Where will we find you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, in the kitchens my lady, my wife is a cook."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very well, you may go. Please send Maraldo in." He bowed and left rapidly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Maraldo entered carrying his record book, a heavy, leather bound volume. He bowed, the standard Aquilonian bow that is little more than a nod and a slight angling of the shoulders. "My lords, my ladies." He was almost smiling.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Please take a seat Maraldo. Pour yourself some wine, we'd like this to be informal." I indicated the chair beside the table. Nalini sat opposite, with her notebook, I sat beside her. Paula and Prospero sat together on the far side of the room, with a small coffee table in front of them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well thank you sir." He sat and poured. "Sir, please permit me to thank you for hiring me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I hope we haven't acted hastily there, but we will get to that. We won't be going through your books today, but we would like an overview of what you manage."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The estate had extensive farmlands, and was almost self-sufficient. The surplus was sold either in the markets in Maldana, or to merchants in Arana. We grew wheat, rice, corn and barley, there were orchards and orange groves, several market gardens that grew a variety of vegetables, and a huge vineyard that had produced the wine we were drinking now. The wine had a slightly unusual flavor, but was very drinkable. Maraldo told us it was a mixture of red and white grapes, and was the vineyard's best. Prospero confirmed that Bendora estate was one of the better wines available in Tarantia.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were thirty one permanently employed farm hands, all of whom lived in cottages scattered around the estate, plus casuals who would be hired to help during harvest season. That brought us to the subject of finances. Maraldo was able to tell us the estate brought in between twelve thousand and twenty thousand gold pieces per year, depending on the weather. A typical farm hand might be paid one gold piece per week, other staff might be paid similarly, the senior staff somewhat more. It seemed to me that the estate should show a handsome profit each year.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I asked Maraldo if he knew what the major domo's expenditure was, and whether he knew how much money was in the strong room.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Wilomo does not allow me to see his records, though he does tell me in general terms what has been spend in a month. This makes it impossible for me to determine whether money has been stolen. I have made a practice of counting the contents every six months or so, I could tell you what was there two months ago. I can understand if you would prefer that I do not know how much is there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hmm. We have to trust someone to mind the strong room when we are not here. I am not happy that you and Wilomo do not reconcile your records. This will change, tomorrow I will show you and Wilomo how I want the records to be reconciled. I intend to conduct an audit of the strong room, and after that an audit of everything on the estate that is valuable."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded. "Sir, I believe I can give an accurate record of everything that I manage. I have made it a practice to use the methods we used in the army when I was quartermaster, and I do conduct spot checks to verify that my records are accurate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The impression was growing on Nalini and I that while it was possible both of them were embezzling, it seemed more likely that if anyone was, then it would be Wilomo.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It may be that someone has been stealing, and it is conceivable that Wilomo may be covering, or may be the perpetrator. But we will be unable to prove anything, so we will give all of you the benefit of the doubt. Once the audit has been conducted, we will be keeping an eye on things. Is the strong room guarded?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sir, Wilomo will not permit guards inside the house."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then we will change that tonight. We will discuss security arrangements with you later, after I have had time to think things over. We have enough soldiers to mount a guard?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Certainly sir, we have thirty soldiers who do little more than guard the gates, and ride escort. We can certainly arrange for two guards on permanent guard duty."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero laughed "Sounds as if a stint of duty here is a cushy number."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo smiled "Many soldiers do look forward to a week at the manor."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula asked "Won't they get bored guarding the strong room?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo grinned "That they will, your ladyship, but a soldier's life is largely moments of intense excitement punctuated by periods of prolonged boredom."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "Maraldo, we have heard that you and Wilomo used to be good friends, but you had a falling out a month ago. It concerns us that you and he will have to work together again. Could you tell us in your own words what happened, and why?" She smiled at him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo looked serious. "Well your ladyship, we are on our way to patching things up." Then he smiled wryly. "It does not show me in the best light, but there's fault on both sides." Nalini nodded encouragingly, the rest of us said nothing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo launched into a tale of Wilomo's daughter Katerina, and how they had grown fond of each other. He avoided the use of the word love, but said he had come to like her enough to ask her father for her hand. According to him, this had been refused on the grounds that he was too old for her.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'Tis true I'm no spring chicken any more, but I am two years younger than her father, and I would treat her well. Wilomo himself led me to believe he would be happy, but his wife wanted to marry her to a wealthy merchant in Maldana. So Katerina and I hatched a plan. When I tell it now, it does not seem to great, but it did seem to be good at the time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If our foresight were as keen as our hindsight, most people would never do things they later regret." Nalini commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is certainly true my lady. Well, to cut a long story short, I made Katerina pregnant, which would stop them from marrying her to the merchant. I told Wilomo I would marry the girl, but he threatened to have his relatives kill me, so I left, taking my records, keys and Katerina with me. I hoped that the records would give me a chance to speak with you and Earl Daniel about this matter."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So tell me, do you think you can patch things up with Wilomo and his wife? How would you like to resolve this?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "My lady, had you asked me this morning I would have said I wanted three things: my old job as manager, Katerina as my wife, and friendship with Wilomo. Thanks to Earl Daniel I have the first, I hope that in the fullness of time I can gain the other two."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We hope to smooth this over as well, but you should think of an act of contrition that will appease Wilomo and his wife." Nalini replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "My lady?" Maraldo looked puzzled.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "Maraldo, the girl is her father's responsibility until she turns sixteen, or marries. While Wilomo is wrong to seek your death, he is within his rights to demand you be punished, or that you make restitution to him in some way. Would you make restitution to him should he demand it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo was obviously a retired officer, he gave us respect as superiors, but never was he obsequious as Wilomo could be. "If he will permit me to marry Katerina, I will perform what ever restitution he demands, provided I can afford it. But if he will not permit it, then I must think about it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Once she turns sixteen you no longer need her father's consent." Prospero observed. "Restitution should be more aimed at regaining his friendship. Sorry Nalini, Danny, this is your show. But Maraldo will be able to marry soon regardless of what her father says, he has regained his job, yet he has transgressed against the parents. There needs to be restitution or punishment if the parents demand it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo looked stern. "If I must, I must. I will marry Katerina whether her parents approve or not. But what about Wilomo threatening me? Can I not demand punishment or restitution?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "I was coming to that. Now you have admitted you are prepared to offer restitution, I can tell you that you may also demand restitution from him for his threats. Shall we summon Wilomo and let you both discuss this now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now is as good a time as any, your lordship."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero reminded me to ring the bell to summon the butler. When he arrived, I sent him to fetch the major domo and his wife. They arrived within minutes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo's wife was obviously younger than he, probably in her early thirties. She seemed a little flustered in our presence, as if so many nobles disconcerted her. She curtsied and stood awkwardly. I gestured to a sofa by the wall. "Drag that over and the two of you can sit."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero rose and grabbed one end of the sofa, over Wilomo's protests. Between the two of them they dragged the sofa into position, then he waved them to sit. He commented "Danny, I should let you run this."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 So the ball was back to me. There was no need to introduce ourselves, we had met Wilomo's wife earlier in the day. I smiled at them. "Please don't feel discomforted, this isn't an inquisition. We would like to resolve the differences between you and Maraldo. Like I said earlier, we would like all of us to be like one big family. We would like all the staff to feel at home here, and we would like to feel we can all trust one another. Wilomo, have you and your wife come to a decision, or do you need more time to discuss it between you?" They nodded. "You are the wronged parties, so you have your say first."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well sir" Wilomo began "we have decided that if Maraldo will make restitution to us, then we will agree to his marrying our daughter. We must look forward, not backward. The girl is with child, someone must marry her."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maraldo, what do you have to say?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I have asked to marry Katerina before all this happened. If restitution be within my power to pay, I will make restitution."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Before we get to restitution, I have a few words to say to the three of you. Firstly, I believe that all of you have behaved badly in this matter. Firstly Wilomo, you refused Maraldo on the grounds that he was too old, when you were hoping to marry Katerina to a wealthy merchant who is even older. That was untruthful, and hypercritical. True, the merchant is wealthier, but Katerina does not even like him. Did you two meet before you married, or was it arranged by your parents without your consent?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I looked directly at the wife. She blushed before responding "Sir, I first noticed Wilomo when I was but fourteen, we would go for walks through the orchard. We.. we fell in love, er.. then he asked my father for my hand."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked gently "How old were you when you married?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It was two months past my fifteenth birthday, your ladyship."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Wilomo, how old were you when you married?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I was twenty seven, my lady."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And how old are you now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Forty two, my lady."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maraldo, how old are you now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "My lady, I am forty next month."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Wilomo, how long had you been married when Katerina was born? She is your eldest child is she not? Forty two and twenty seven would seem to mean your daughter could be no older than fifteen."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo looked at his wife, she looked stricken. After what seemed like an eternity, Wilomo replied "Five months, your ladyship." There seemed to be something wrong with his voice.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "In other words, you two have behaved just the same as Katerina and Maraldo, except that your parents gave permission for you to marry. Don't you think you both behaved a little high handedly toward Maraldo?" They both looked shocked, and couldn't seem to say anything.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Now it was my turn. "Also Wilomo, you behaved badly by threatening to have Maraldo killed. That was not within your rights as the offended father. You do realize that Maraldo can demand restitution from you for that threat? It caused him to leave his job and flee for his life."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo seemed to be regaining his composure. "I was angry sir, I spoke words I should not have spoken, and later regretted."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But it does not change the fact that you behaved more like a drunken lout in some dockside tavern. However, you did have provocation. Maraldo, you have behaved appallingly in this matter also. You are a retired centurion, you are expected to set an example as a leader of men, but you behaved more like a lowest ranking soldier. Perhaps if you were sixteen your youth and inexperience might be mitigating factors, but not for a forty year old retired centurion." I sighed theatrically and looked at them. "All three of you should feel ashamed of your behavior. You two started things, Maraldo you made matters worse, and Wilomo you made matters worse still. Will you let this escalate to a full blown feud, or will you settle your differences like adults?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 All three looked chastened. Maraldo spoke first. "My behavior was appalling, I humbly beg your forgiveness. I offer my hand in friendship." He extended his hand.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo looked at his wife, who nudged him. He took Maraldo's hand and responded "I accept your apology." He paused for a moment, released Maraldo's hand, and then intoned "My behavior was appalling, I humbly beg your forgiveness. I offer my hand in friendship." The shook hands again while Maraldo accepted Wilomo's apology.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "Goodwife, do you also accept this resolution?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She blushed and stammered "I accept his apology. Do I also have to offer my hand?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, if you accept, you must offer your hand."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I offer my hand in friendship" She and Maraldo shook hands.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now we come to the matter of restitution." I continued. "I want each of you to name what you think is fair restitution for your troubles. Bear in mind that Maraldo can ask for the month's wages he has foregone."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo shook his head, but before he could speak, Prospero added "And a month's wages is quite possibly fair restitution for Wilomo and his wife. Remember that you do not wish to beggar your prospective son in law, he must provide adequately for your daughter."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo stated "I will offer five gold pieces, 'tis all that is left of my savings."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "When will you next be paid? How will you live until you are paid?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He shrugged. "If we live here, we can eat in the kitchen with the other staff, we will not starve. I am not sure where we would stay though, since my cottage has been given to the housekeeper."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo's wife responded "Maraldo, you should keep your savings, but do the right thing by our Katerina, marry her, make her happy, and look after her."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini chimed in enthusiastically "Splendid! We shall have a wedding on the estate! Wilomo, you should arrange the catering out of the estate funds, and make sure that it is good." Both Wilomo and his wife brightened at this suggestion. "Danny, we need to consider building another house for them. In the meantime, you could stay in one of the spare rooms we have in the manor."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The three smiled tentatively at one another. Wilomo commented "Your pardon, noble lords and ladies, but there are duties my wife must attend to in the kitchen. With your permission?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I gave it, but Nalini interrupted. "Maraldo, where is Katerina right now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, she is in lodgings we have rented in Maldana. I should return to her."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini looked concerned. "Is she by herself there?" Maraldo nodded. "Can she travel? Ride a horse I mean."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That she can, my lady."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I feel that if she stays there tonight, she will be in danger. Take horses, an escort and what ever else you need, and bring her here tonight. I think there are still two hours before sunset. Wilomo, would you please prepare rooms for them here in the manor? And..." she turned to Wilomo's wife "what is your name dear?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sondra my lady" She sketched a curtsey.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sondra is a nice name. Sondra, please make sure that there is hot food for Maraldo, Katerina and the soldiers. They are sure to be hungry when they return." She turned back to the two men. "Tomorrow we will discuss housing, and look through both your records. Now, we would like to bathe and prepare for dinner."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The estate was organized to maintain enough hot water to fill one bath in one of the suites. The estate's public bathhouse used a separate supply of water that was heated during the afternoon and evening. The estate's employees would all bathe together late in the evening, the water would not be hot until then.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Since there was only enough hot water to fill Nalini's and my bath, the four of us shared the bath, which made it a little crowded. Still, we took the chance to soak for a while, and talk about the day's events.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "I'm impressed that Nalini and you managed to resolve the issue of the manager."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini responded "I think the only reason we managed it was they were already prepared to resolve the issues. We just brought them to a head. I tried to find out from each of them separately what they thought would be the best outcome, and both of them agreed on the main points. There was no way we could force a resolution on them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thanks for offering the legal opinions Prospero, we don't know enough about Aquilonian law."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He chuckled. "Our legal code isn't cut and dried like yours is, ours is much more flexible, and left to the interpretation of the judges. Precedent is used as a guide, but more important is the judge's interpretation of what is right and fair in the case before him. Keep ideas of fairness to the forefront and you'll do better than most nobles anyway. We are not judges, we do not need to be legal experts. If you find yourself in such a situation, call for a judge to offer advice."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What I don't understand" Paula complained "Is how a girl of sixteen can fall in love with someone old enough to be her father."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero smiled ruefully. "Paula, we have had this discussion many times. Traditionally a girl is married at fifteen. Most parents, and most daughters in fact, want to marry a man who can provide for them and their children. A man who is thirty or older is usually well settled into his career, if he will be successful the signs are evident by that age. Forty is not uncommon, many career soldiers do not retire until forty, and many of them have never married. They all want someone who can bare them children. Assuming Maraldo is honest, he is in secure employment, and will be paid well. For that matter, my own mother was but fifteen when she married my father, and he was thirty."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Paula it's the same in many countries. Girls trade their bodies for a better life. Why do you think we pretty ourselves up and wear make up and short skirts? Anyway, Prospero is older than you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, but he's only six years older. I'd have a problem if he was forty, and I'm twenty three, not sixteen."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I had a private giggle about that. We were both closer to forty than thirty, but that hadn't stopped Paula making a play for me before Prospero had appeared on the scene.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini looked at Paula for a few moments with a sly grin, then remarked "I'm actually four years older than Danny, did you know that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula knew, but Prospero didn't. "I thought you were about my age, and Danny maybe a year or so older, though he only looks about my age."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini replied "We're both older than you Prospero, but you know that time runs at different speeds in different shadows. It's difficult to say exactly how old either of us is, so we judge our ages by the date in our home shadows."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, let me assure you Nalini that you look younger than Danny does. In fact, if I didn't know, I'd say you were probably younger than Paula."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That will happen to both of you now that you are practicing sorcery. You will not age much. Danny has only been practicing for a year or two, whereas I have been practicing for at least eighteen years now. And since you both want to know how old I am, I started learning from Korum when I was twenty. I like to think I haven't aged much since then. Danny was over thirty before he started, so he will have that disadvantage, he will always look older than I!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Later, the conversation turned to our staff. "Prospero, what is your assessment of Maraldo and Wilomo? Are they honest? Can we trust them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I've been thinking about that since we learned that both of them have unsupervised access to the strong room. Wilomo does not let Maraldo see his records, which suggests he has something to hide. He has the opportunity to steal money without anyone noticing. Maraldo claims he keeps accurate records, but he might only claim that. As quartermaster, he would know how to juggle records so they seem complete, yet hide theft. Also, the farm income passes through his hands, so it would be very easy for some of it to stick. For now you have to trust them, but I would test each of them without letting either of them know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You might have to make some suggestions about how we can do that. We were going to change the strong room locks tonight, and make it so that they have only half the keys each. You know we will introduce accounting style bookkeeping, and reconcile from Maraldo's last known total. But all that means is that the records will match with the total, it doesn't stop them from stealing, and certainly not from stealing money before it is entered."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula commented "They don't usually issue receipts here, so you can't just go to merchants and check what they paid for something."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I nodded. "Makes it a little harder. The usual accounting procedures are separation of function, so that the person who has access can't authorize expenditure, and vice versa, and making sure there is a paper trail. Probably the hardest aspect will be the income, since all payments pass through Maraldo. If any of you have any ideas, let us know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The six of us ate in the formal dining hall. I would have preferred somewhere smaller, since this room could have sat hundreds. However, the only other place was the small staff dining room. Prospero advised against joining them. "You will make all of them nervous. They will feel they are all under scrutiny."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The meal included some vegetarian dishes for Nalini and me, and the chef seemed to have done a an excellent job with the meal. Prospero was happy that what he ate was equal with what he could obtain back in Tarantia. Coffee was as yet unknown here, but we had brought a supply of our own, much to the interest of the butler and some of the kitchen staff.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After dinner all six of us went for a walk through shadow to a hardware store, and returned an hour later with several bags of equipment, tools and hardware. Some of the things we bought included a portable electric generator, powered by propane gas, electric power tools and lights, as well as some specialist deadlocks. We could have bought a safe, but none of us could have carried it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We chased up Wilomo for his keys to the strong room, and then Prospero and I set to work while a number of onlookers watched in awe. The audience included Wilomo and Maraldo, only recently returned from Maldana, Liz, Rupert and Paula. Wilomo carried a lantern.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The cellar was extensive, holding preserved food, barrels of wine and many other stores sufficient to feed the entire staff for perhaps several months. The strong room was in the middle of the cellar, and seemed to be constructed of stone blocks cemented together. There were no windows, and only one door. I turned to Prospero and Rupert. "Weak point is the floor, it's dirt, and can be easily dug through. The ceiling is possibly another. Wilomo, what is overhead?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, I believe this area would be the staff dining room, while over that way is the main dining hall. The kitchen is behind us, and the servants' quarters extend to our right."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you. So it would be possible to cut through the floor above."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We started work by the somewhat dim light of an oil lamp. We hooked up the gas bottle to the generator, opened taps, and cranked the handle until it started. It functioned on the same principles as any diesel or petrol generator except that it burned bottled propane gas and was considerably lighter. Next came a couple of fluorescent lights, which caused consternation amongst the onlookers who had never seen them before.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We had Wilomo open the strong room, and entered. The strong room was essentially a small room lined with shelves. The ceiling was wooden planks, as was the floor.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo commented "I think those wooden planks are about an inch and a half thick. It would be possible to break through them, but I think it would make some noise."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Only if there is a guard to hear that noise."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In the center was a desk and chair, and writing implements, along with several sacks of coins and small wooden box. On the floor were a number of wooden chests, and there were leather sacks on the shelves. Every chest and almost all the sacks were sealed with wire, ribbon and sealing wax. We opened a couple to display gold coins. Wilomo opened the chests one by one to display gold and silver coins filling them. It looked like a lot of money. Then he and Wilomo heated sealing wax, and resealed the chests and sacks we had opened. Each one pressed their own seal ring into the wax.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo confirmed my guess. He consulted his record book "Last time I counted, there were eighteen thousand two hundred and seventy one gold crowns, two thousand one hundred and twenty three gold half crowns, one thousand seven hundred and fourteen silver florins, one thousand three hundred and thirty seven silver shillings, nine hundred and one silver half shillings, two thousand four hundred and fifteen copper pennies, twelve hundred and forty eight copper half pennies, and four hundred and eleven copper farthings."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It must have taken you a while to count all of that. How can you be sure it is accurate? Especially if money is coming in and going out while you are counting?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh no my lady. When I first took up my position, some chests were sealed, but some weren't. I brought a squad of soldiers from the barracks, and together with Wilomo and the scribes we counted every single coin in every chest and sack. We had soldiers counting, and others watching to make sure nothing was stolen. We sealed each sack, and each sack should contain the same number of coins. On subsequent counts we checked the seals of each sack and chest, and counted the chests and sacks. The open sacks were counted again, and we opened several sacks at random to check them. The number of sealed sacks should always increase, since we make more money from the farms that we spend."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And the more this increases, the more it will become a temptation for thieves." I commented. "Well, so far, you two have impressed me with your honesty, and your efforts to ensure that nothing is stolen. But keys can be copied, both of you must sleep and bathe. We are about to change the locks, and from now on, both of you must be present to open the strong room door, because each of you will have the keys to only half the locks."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo nodded. "It makes sense sir. Would you have a complete set yourselves?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo pursed his lips as if this would be an inconvenience, but nodded and said nothing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We would, so we can open the strong room, and if one of you needs to, then one of us can open it. When we are away, it makes sense to us that both of you must be present to open the strong room. I would also ask that no one be allowed in here alone, and that there always be two guards on duty around the strong room. That fortune would be a very attractive target for thieves. It is not that I don't trust either of you, but alone it would be very easy for a thief to knock you out. Half the keys each means that a thief must rob both of you in order to obtain complete set of keys."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I don't think either Maraldo or Wilomo realized we intended to install the locks ourselves until Prospero and I began drawing with pencil on the door to indicate where we had to drill.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sir," Wilomo protested "Should we not send for the carpenter?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Maybe, but I think we'll be quicker. Plus, the fewer people who know about what is inside here the better."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course, I should have thought of that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The old locks were much larger than the new ones, so I decided to leave the basic mechanism in place and remove the tongues so they couldn't be used. Then Prospero held the door while I used the electric drill, though we did take it in turns. The drill caused much comment from those in the audience who had never heard of an electric drill. It might have taken a carpenter with a hand drill and hammer and chisel all day to fit the four locks, we had the entire job done in little over an hour.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The final thing we had to fit was guards for the lynch pins. Otherwise all the locks on the one side of the door could be circumvented by the simple expedient of using a hammer and screwdriver to knock the lynch pins out of the hinges and pulling the entire door off.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We swept up, much to the consternation of Wilomo who wanted to call a servant, then presented Wilomo and Maraldo with their keys, two each.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo turned his over, remarking "These are very odd looking keys!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The key was a Y shape in cross section, and each arm of the Y was notched. "It's designed to make the lock almost impossible to pick, and impossible to duplicate the key without special equipment." I pointed to the notches. "Each notch corresponds to a pin inside the lock barrel, there are nine pins along each of three rows. So a thief must push twenty seven pins to the correct height at the same time, and each pin must be pushed to a different height. It is also difficult to take a wax impression." I didn't add that a skilled jewelry maker might be able to duplicate a key should a careful thief take a wax indentation impression of each pair of arms. No point in giving them ideas.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo looked thoughtful. "Then the strong room is now impregnable sir."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shook my head. "No strong room is impregnable, but the trick is to stay one or two steps ahead of the thieves, and to have things in place to detect if a robbery occurs. If you were down here in the strong room by yourself, it would be very easy for a thief or two to hide in the shadows down here, and sneak up and over power you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "I don't think the guards should be allowed to see what is in the strong room, but they should accompany you into the cellar. That way any thief still has to make his way past the guards."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "You two should be aware that if it becomes known about the contents of this strong room, there will be many thieves who will stop at nothing to get hold of it, including killing or torturing you to obtain the keys, or kidnapping your families. You are probably reasonably safe here on the estate, but you should take care. Always take soldiers with you when you leave the estate, and that applies to your families. You should leave your keys with the soldiers, or somewhere that will be guarded around the clock. We need to have enough soldiers to patrol the estate and accompany you if you need it. I'm not sure if thirty is adequate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero responded "Fifty might be a better number, you simply request the commanded of the barracks to supply extra soldiers. Maraldo, you should work out a guard roster so you have an idea of how many guards we need."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo nodded. "I will do that, and I can convey that to the commander if you wish, sir."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's okay, I'll be seeing him sometime in the next few days, I'll ask him then. Tomorrow we will purchase a safe that we can situate upstairs, we'll keep small amounts of money there for estate use, and the current record books. That way there will be less need to visit the strong room. We will set aside one room for the scribes and for you to maintain your records, and put the safe in there. We can arrange for a pair of guards to watch the room. You two will obviously need keys to the safe, but perhaps your keys to the strong room should be kept in the safe."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo responded "Sir, we have never had a robbery here in over three hundred years. Do you really think we are in danger?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Probably a lot less than if we were close to Tarantia. But all it takes is one careless word in a tavern and we'll have thieves coming out of the woodwork. A couple of people could live in luxury for years on the gold in there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo commented "That is certainly true sir. One thing I must add is that in the army we always tried to anticipate problems and be ready if they ever happened. I believe we should prepare for thieves, they are a risk."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "We could even purchase two or three safes, with half the keys in one safe, and the other half in the other safe. You could divide your set the same way, and have your own set of keys to the safe."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think we all agree." I replied. "And now gentlemen, ladies, I think we have had enough excitement for one night. Tomorrow we have the councilors from Maldana coming to brief us, we'd like to make a start on reconciling your records, and we have to buy a safe. We have to find time to inspect the property, and meet with the councilors from other cities. I think I will be reasonably busy for the next few weeks."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero began packing tools while I disassembled the generator. We found an empty shelf and deposited everything there. Then we headed back upstairs.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "We need to get a diary to schedule our time while we're here. We have things to do in Brisbane as well, we will be making a number of trips. Liz, how long before you have to go home?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz shrugged. "As long as I call them regularly, I can probably stay away for a couple of months."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini smiled. "You will have to work on them. I have to call mine regularly, but they only expect me to visit every now and then. But I don't want to be away for too long, we should have the English back within a month at the latest."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  We were busy over the next few weeks.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One by one, the cities of the region for which I was now lord sent their councilors to meet with me and brief me. Nalini attended these briefings, as did Prospero. Prince Rupert attended the first few, then satisfied that he understood what we were working to achieve, he stopped attending. Paula and Liz did not attend, they found other things to occupy them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Part of the briefing was exactly that, I wanted to know what the council did, and what they administered. Another part involved Prospero and I telling them how things needed to change. We needed to coordinate that the entire region was administered, that the roads were maintained, taxes collected and sent to Tarantia. I wanted a regional council that would advise me and help to administer the region, but would work through the city councils where it could. For that I required each of the city councils to appoint one of their number to attend briefing sessions with the other appointees and with me. We would meet for as many days as the business at hand required and then schedule the next meeting in about a month, depending on the urgency of matters. Each meeting would be scheduled at a different city, in rotation, and that would also give me a chance to attend council meetings for that city. There were some grumblings, but the magic words "this is how the king wants it" usually worked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Arana council demurred, wanting to hold all meetings in Arana. I ended up pulling rank and telling them "This is fair to all the other town councils, why should you be any different? I'm sorry you disagree, but this is how it will be. Please feel free to write to the king if you are unhappy with this decision. Don't forget I could be selfish and order all meetings at the estate."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They gave in at that point. Prospero thought they were just flexing their muscles, but like a young buck challenging the old bull, had given way when push came to shove.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero and I also had to explain about the new parliament and how it would work. One of Nalini or I had to attend sessions of the House of Lords, one member of my advisory committee would accompany me as the member of the House of Commons. The member of commons job attracted a salary of two hundred and fifty crowns per year, which equated to about seventy five thousand dollars in our own terms. In addition, every councilor would be paid one hundred crowns per year as a retainer. This was not a fortune to the rich merchants who made up the bulk of the councilors, but it was an incentive, and meant that people who weren't rich could try for councilors and have a chance of feeding their families.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 This money was to be paid for out of the taxes that the estate collected from the region. Tax was levied on every male over the age of sixteen, and was levied at two gold crowns per person, regardless of income. I am sure there were those for who even this low level of tax was a burden, but tax reform had to be agreed by king Amrik.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The incentives for someone to attend the parliament were not quite sufficient for most councilors given they would spend two or three weeks away from home at a time. However, I pointed out to them "King Amrik is quite happy to extend this opportunity to all citizens, be they sheep herder or ditch digger. I can imagine that there would be a number of people who would jump at the chance of an income like that. If I can't get one of the council to volunteer, I am afraid the king requires me to throw the position open to all who want it. I would of course restrict it to those who can read and write, but maybe in the first instance you councilors could suggest suitable candidates? If the person chosen is agreeable to the council I am sure that King Amrik would endorse their choice, and not enquire exactly how the selection was made."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 All the councils saw the wisdom of having a candidate of whom they approved, they all managed to provide a candidate. In some cases these were the mayor's son or close relative. I had to work with the councils, though I intended to make the processes more democratic over time. The problem was partly that in this world nepotism was seen by many people to be good sense.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The final selection was made by all the councilors sitting together. We had invited them all to the estate for the day, though many from distant towns would stay overnight at Maldana. Each candidate had to give a short speech about why he would be the best person for the House of Commons. Then we conducted a secret ballot, where every candidate's name was written on the ballot paper, and each councilor had to mark his or her own ballot paper with the numbers from one to nine. The ballots went into a wooden box, and when the voting was finished Prospero and I tallied the results on a blackboard.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I could see the reasoning behind not having open democratic elections yet - we needed to teach people what it was about, and we needed an army of workers to supervise the proceedings.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 You might think that each councilor would have voted for his own candidate, and so we would have nine candidates with equal votes, but that was not the case. We tallied the primary votes under the watchful eye of the councilors, and placed each vote into one of nine bundles. The spread of votes was wide, so it was obvious that some councilors had voted for another council's candidate. The candidate with the fewest votes was eliminated, and their second preferences distributed. The process went on until one candidate emerged with more than fifty percent of the votes. There was some discontent with the result, especially with Arana, which as the biggest town had wanted their candidate to win.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After we declared the results, I announced that all the candidates would constitute my advisors, and would receive an allowance for that. I also told them that the next elections would be in a year, and would draw again from my advisors. There was some discussion about how long an advisor should serve for, since councilors were more or less for life.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero told them all "For the present, councilors for the regional council will serve a term of five years, though that may change later if there are problems. Many of you will have business interests, and may not be able to afford the time away from your businesses. This is why we pay a salary to the councilors and the parliamentary member. The king would like to extend the five-year term to all councils, so that they have to be chosen by the people. The process will be similar to what we used for selecting the parliamentary candidate. People who wish to serve on the town council for five years can put their names down, and those who vote will hold a secret ballot to choose councilors. Somewhere between nine and twelve councilors seems a good number."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a lot of resistance to the idea of councilors being elected by people, instead of being selected by the existing councilors as currently happened. Prospero said the magic words "This is how the king has decreed it will happen. It is up to all of us to make that happen. We have briefed each of the councils in our visits to their cities. One of the tasks for Lord Danny's regional council will be to co-ordinate this. We will need your co-operation for this to work. I have already set this up in my own estate, I will be spending time here ensuring that things are done in accord with the king's will. I am sure all of you realize we are reasonable men, we want something workable, even if it is not quite up to what the king has decreed as his ideal situation."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I could see that there were wheels turning inside many councilors' heads. We had offered them the stick of how the king wanted it done and the carrot of being able to make some changes that might better suit them. Good old self interest!}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Voting was to be open to all men and women who were citizens. This required some way of determining who was a citizen. The other option was to all taxpayers, but that would currently restrict it to adult males. I might note that one tax reform that Amrik was considering was to lower the tax, but apply it to all adults, regardless of sex. There was a census planned for the next few months, with a registrar to be compiled of all families. That had been a regular occurrence under the old kings, but had not happened since Amrik had assumed the throne. Prospero had told me privately that once the census had been taken, the adults would then be voters and would also be taxpayers. The records would be adjusted each year as the tax collectors went through the land.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Social change takes time, and a properly working democratic system would take years to develop. People needed to be educated about their civic duties and about how government works.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were other activities to keep the regional council busy. One was ensuring that all citizens could obtain four years' schooling. There was as yet no standard curriculum, that would come later once the infrastructure had been set up. First we required teachers, schoolrooms and pupils. In the towns this would be relatively easy, but outlying areas would be a problem.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A second activity was augmenting the king's courier service into the royal mail, capable of delivering letters anywhere in the kingdom, and available to all citizens. Initially it would be between the main towns only, but that was a big improvement over existing facilities. Mail outside Aquilonia would still be at the mercy of travelers, but there was a good chance that other nations would copy Aquilonia.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A third one was the creation of a police force, relieving soldiers of policing duties. Aquilonia was very much at the stage of training the trainers, but the idea of a special force for the investigation and prevention of crime was popular. Many in the initial intake of police might be recruited from the army, but the idea was there. I also instituted the idea of a neighborhood watch, where the citizens in an area would assume the basic crime prevention duties for the area in which they lived. We even borrowed an idea from the old English Bobbies- that of the bobby's whistle to attract the watch should their presence be required.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Other matters included road maintenance, ensuring there were patrols along all of the roads, and sending the army to track down any highway men.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Add to that the necessity for going to Tarantia for the parliament and I think you'll realize that there was much to do in Aquilonia before anything else. I could understand better why Prospero did not spend more time in my home shadow.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The estate kept us busy at first. We spent time touring around it, looking at everything. As I have said previously, the place was a working farm and produced almost everything it consumed. Prospero and I tried out hand at introducing coffee plants, but it would be years before we would know if the venture would pay off.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I bought three safes, one for the major domo, one for the manager, and one for us. The keys to the strong room were kept inside the respective safes, as was the working capital that each required for day to day running of the estate. Paula, Liz and I taught Wilomo, Maraldo and the scribes the essentials of bookkeeping, and reconciled our records. There was money missing, five hundred and forty gold pieces to be precise, but we made the pretence of accepting the excuse that there had been errors in record keeping.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I commented "It is possible the old keys were copied, and someone stole money that way. It may be too late to find out now. However, we have new locks on the strong room, I put you both on notice that if money is missing in the future I will hold the two of you jointly responsible." There were no protests, I think both of them realized that as keepers of the keys, they were the only ones who could have access.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I continued "You each have your own safe, and the money in you safe is you own responsibility. Any questions?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo looked at Wilomo. "See, I told you we needed guards on the strong room!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo asked "What will you do about the missing money?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We will investigate, through the trail may be rather cold by now. From the accounting point of view, we write it off as theft."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added sternly "You two can think yourselves fortunate that it is king Amrik on the throne, and that you don't have one of a dozen lords I can name in Danny's stead. Some would think nothing of torturing both of you until you confessed." Both men blanched. "However, we are trying to distance ourselves from such barbarities, torture is illegal, and Earl Danny is a compassionate man."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "Under king Sorono, you would have been considered guilty unless you could prove your innocence. Under king Amrik, you are innocent until proven guilty. But that does not mean you can get away with crimes. As I said, you are now jointly responsible for the money in the strong room."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It wasn't obvious who had stolen the gold, but the quantity suggested only one person. That many coins would weigh thirty-five and a half pounds, or sixteen kilograms, about the sort of weight a man could carry without staggering. There were no obvious signs of spending around the estate; it might be possible to locate the money if we searched the belongings of every one on the estate, or it might be buried somewhere.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We started a project to modernize the plumbing in manor, but that would take some months to reach fruition. I had a mind to install a gas or electric powered fridge as well. Cooking here like everywhere relied on fresh produce since there was no refrigeration. About the only way to preserve food during winter was pickling, cooking with sugar, or salting. Fortunately Aquilonia has mild winters, and fresh produce could still be obtained.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It wasn't all work. Nalini and I spent hours with the dog rambling around the estate, just getting to know where everything was. Sometimes Maraldo would accompany us, though he preferred riding, claiming he had done enough walking while in the army. More often Paula and Prospero would accompany us, and frequently Liz and Rupert. The two of them seemed to be getting along well, though Liz was of the opinion it was a holiday romance. Though they shared a suite, that wasn't as intimate as it sounds, in Aquilonian terms a suite consists of two bedrooms, a shared bathing area, and a shared lounge area.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert was slightly envious. As the third son, he was very much the poor cousin. My understanding was that he had no lands to inherit, and no country estate. He certainly gave me the impression that he would have loved to have an estate like Bendora for his own. He took a great deal of interest in everything that went on, and how it was run. I think he might have been more suited to lord of Bendora than Nalini and I.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I told him he would always be welcome to visit us either at our estate or any other shadow in which we happened to be living.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He responded "I thank you both for your gracious offer. But without your abilities I cannot come visiting."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Consider it an incentive. We will teach you if you can find us in dreaming. Imladril has also made that offer, so it is up to you. Liz is learning, one day she will be able to do what we can do."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He seemed to be thinking long and hard about things.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One initiative of Nalini's was she had Wilomo compile a register of everyone on the estate, along with their dates of birth. She arranged that each person be given a gold crown on their birthday and that there be a feast in their honor if they wanted it. With fifty of more employees plus their families, there were quite a few days where several people were celebrating their birthdays.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini also issued instructions that when someone was sick, the estate would pay for a physician to attend that person if he or she needed it. Physicians here were not like western doctors, but were more like herbalists able to diagnose illnesses and prepare herbal remedies, set bones and so on. They did not deliver babies, that was the job of the midwife.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Each town has a small number of physicians, who collectively form the town's physician's guild. Maldana has twenty one physicians, two of whom are female, proving that Aquilonia was moving along the path of equality; Arana has sixty seven physicians, ten of whom are female. There is no school of medicine; a physician usually follows in his or her father's footsteps by serving an apprenticeship. Some physicians will take on others as trainees, and some retired physicians will set up schools that will train hopefuls for a fee. These schools tend to falter when their founder grows too old or dies. Tarantia does have a royal college of physicians, intended by a previous king to train physicians to a standard suitable to treat the royal family, but the fees are beyond the reach of all but the richest merchants. You can probably appreciate there is wildly varying levels of skill and knowledge between physicians.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero and Amrik were now convinced of the need to train all physicians to the same level, and ensure that medical best practice was disseminated. That would of course take years to achieve. Nalini meanwhile took things in our region into her own hands. I should point out that she does have several years of medical training, though she never completed her medical course. Korum and shadow shifting intervened, plus she found she preferred working with computers. "They aren't as icky and messy." she says.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini decreed that she would become the patron of each town's guild of Physicians. The physicians thought that harmless enough, until she began finding out about treatments and diagnosis procedures, and issuing changes. Nalini was armed with several books on medicine from her own shadow, and had enough medical knowledge to defeat most physicians when it came to debate. That may give you some idea of the medical standards in Aquilonia, when someone with a half-complete medical degree knows more about medicine than the local physicians. Of course, our own standards of medicine just one hundred years ago were even more appalling. Aquilonian physicians at least knew about the connection between dirt, contamination and disease; a hundred years ago most western physicians didn't.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was initial resistance to Nalini's suggestions, but as there was no medical board that issued licenses, they could only judge her by her successes and failures. I think the turning point came when she issued instructions to all physicians about the preparation and use of penicillin. The few who believed her proved just how effective the treatment was, and suddenly she gained a reputation for medical expertise. It was a step, albeit a small one.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Many modern treatments could not be used due to the absence of equipment and drugs. However, most modern wonder drugs are synthetic derivatives of the active ingredients from plants. Nalini and I scoured several shadows including our own for good books on herbal remedies. We needed the large encyclopedic ones with colored pictures of every plant so we could recognize them. That gave us another project - to write an Aquilonian herbal medicine manual, based on the information in these manuals, augmented by information the physicians volunteered. The division between physician and apothecary was only just beginning, with some physicians deciding to specialize on creating herbal preparations. As a general rule however, physicians did not dispense medical preparations, but would have their assistants parcel up bundles of dried herbs, which the patient would take home and cook.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero suggested another business enterprise - sourcing the herbs written up in the herbal manual, and distributing them to all physicians across Aquilonia. Many physicians still had their assistants gather the herbs locally, though there were specialist herbalists who grew hard to gather herbs. But there was no one coordinating things so that any physician in Aquilonia could order all medical herbs. Such a business also needed a postal service, otherwise the cost of couriers would be prohibitive.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Maldana has a population of about thirty thousand people, about four thousand five hundred of which are active soldiers. Perhaps another twelve to fifteen thousand are soldiers' families, the rest of the population work at jobs that provide support facilities for the army. Arana is the biggest city in the region, with a population estimated at between seventy thousand and one hundred thousand. It is the major clearinghouse for the region's produce, and the port through which all goods entered and exited. As such, there is quite a floating population of sailors as ships come and go. In addition, Arana has between fifteen hundred and two thousand soldiers, with their families.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The other seven major towns are somewhere between ten thousand and fifty thousand people. This of course leaves out smaller towns, but they are all much smaller, having less than one thousand people all up. The major towns all have town councils, the smaller ones mostly have no councils and may have no authority figure at all. One of our tasks was to assist in creating an administrative infrastructure that included all of these smaller towns. That wasn't necessarily town councils, but at the least locating a few people who were willing to take the job and who had the respect of a reasonable proportion of the townspeople. Of course, this begs the question of when it is a town, and when is it a village.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I had few staff on whom we could rely for this, so we delegated the task to the army. They had some sort of garrison in every town/village with more than one hundred and fifty taxpayers, which gave us a working separation between town and village. A town would have some sort of council, a village would come under the umbrella of the nearest town. Often the garrisons were little more than a squad of ten soldiers commanded by the equivalent of corporal, let's say a decurion. A decurion was at least capable of reading and writing, and some arithmetic.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The decades or squads of ten men were formed into centuries of ten squads or one hundred soldiers. A centurion, an officer something like a lieutenant or captain, commanded each century. There were also four sergeants who were each responsible for about twenty five soldiers, except that in practice they had two or three squads to make the numbers come out even. Thus a century of one hundred soldiers actually comprised one hundred and fifteen men once you included the ten decurions, four sergeants and one centurion. Those officers were in the field with their men, so that if there were ten squads spread amongst five towns, one would also host the centurion and the other four might host a sergeant each. Of course, not every century had the requisite number of sergeants.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Whoever was the highest ranking officer in a town became the town's official contact. He had the power to co-opt town leaders to form a committee if the town had none. If the town already had one, then he became the town's liaison officer, with orders for the town council that this officer was the king's representative at their council. I know this sounds a bit like military rule, but the army had the organizational infrastructure spread throughout the region and it had people who had some training in leadership as well as following orders. Using the military was also the only practical way that I could issue a proclamation and have it read in every village in the region. And since I was the military commander for the region, I planned to make use of the manpower available.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The royal mail service would build on the army's infrastructure. The existing royal courier service was provided by the army, but was for the king, nobles who were military commanders and the military to dispatch messages. The courier service was provided at no charge, but the royal mail would be based on cost recovery. It would also mean that the local command post would also become the local post office. The military was reasonably happy with the idea, especially since there would be many more jobs for non-combatants, provided they could read and write. Career soldiers who were getting too old to fight would no longer have to retire and look for other work.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As you can see, Nalini and I had much to keep us occupied. And I thought that being the lord of an estate would be a holiday! Nalini wants me to add the comment that we could have treated it like a holiday if we had left everything as it was, but since we cared about the people we felt under an obligation to make a difference. Looking back we can see that we have made quite a difference. But I am getting ahead of myself.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We had been at the estate only four days when the puritans and king Charles arrived. It was early evening, about half an hour before the evening meal was to be served. Wilomo sent a servant girl to interrupt our bath to inform us of the arrival.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What is Wilomo doing right now?" I asked the girl.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sir, he is outside in the corridor, awaiting your instructions." I noticed her eyes kept straying to Nalini sitting in the water beside me, but probably that was from simple curiosity about Nalini's dark skin.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini noticed too, and winked at her. "In case you're wondering, I'm dark all over."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "My lady, I wasn't..." she began.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's all right, I'm used to it. Many pale skinned people haven't seen someone with dark skin before." She checked with me, then continued "You might as well send Wilomo in, this needs to be dealt with now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Wilomo entered, the girl trailing behind. "My lord, my lady, we have a party of visitors arrived. There is the king of England, the dowager duchess of Poitain, three of the king's knights, seven of his advisors, the Queen of the Viharani with her consort, her brother a prince whose name escapes me with his wife, baron Laredo and his son plus some servants. We do not have enough suites, but we do have sufficient guestrooms. I am having them all prepared, and I have instructed the kitchen to prepare extra food. I doubt we will have sufficient hot water for them all either."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I guess you'll just have to do your best with the hot water. Maybe in future the hot water for the bathhouse should be heated before dinner, and kept hot for the evening. Um\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0 consult duke Prospero about whether his mother will share a suite with the king of England. The three knights and the seven advisors do not need suites, just guestrooms. They will probably be happy with bowls of hot water, the English do not enjoy bathing as we do here. The king would want a bath, as will the Viharani. If we don't have enough suites to go round, the Viharani are two couples, they only need two bedrooms, and they could share a suite. If anyone has their noses out of joint over the accommodation, they will just have to accept that this isn't the palace at Tarantia, we don't have hundreds of guest suites."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Certainly sir, I will make those arrangements." He was being very proper in front of the servant girl. "Some of the dinner preparations might not be ready in time, should I delay dinner? It should not be more than another half hour."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Delaying would be best. Find out when the chef says he will be ready without rushing him, and set dinner for then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Certainly sir. We will enquire of each person whether they require to bathe before dinner, or are content to wash now and bathe later." He paused for a moment. "With your leave sir?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, sure. You don't need to wait for me to tell you to go. You've asked for instructions, I've given them. But if it makes you feel happier, you may go Wilomo. Thank you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I caught up briefly with the Viharani before dinner, and chatted about what they and we had been doing, but most of the discussion had to wait until dinner.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They were all interested in our plans for the estate and the region, and offered to visit from time to time to see how things developed. The Viharani had a completely different society, with all members telepathic amongst themselves. Problems could rapidly be communicated to the council, but each individual and each settlement had a high degree of autonomy. Urgent problems would be solved by whoever was on the spot, non urgent ones could be discussed by those interested, regardless of whereabouts. They had few laws, relying instead on consensus interpretation of tradition, plus what seemed fair at the time. I think secretly they regarded most humans as stupid and primitive, because why else would they need such well-defined laws? Proper social behavior should be learned as a child; adults should know how to behave.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror confessed to spending some time debating the puritans over morals and ethics, and had delighted in finding biblical quotations to contradict things they said that he didn't agree with. He also went through a number of ethical exercises that the Viharani used in teaching their children. The puritans wavered between defiant and ashamed that they did not perform as well as they expected.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini, Prospero and I were wondering how king Charles would handle not being the center of attention, because none of us had any intention of kowtowing to him. However, most of the servants did behave obsequiously; he might not have been THE king, but he was a king and they encouraged him to made himself at home ordering the servants around.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At dinner I had to give a short speech of welcome, but I kept it informal. I wished them well, told them to make themselves at home, and if they wished for anything to let me know and we would try to obtain it for them. I pointed out that this wasn't the palace, and that our range of entertainment might be a little limited, but that everyone should try to relax and treat this as a holiday.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles made some remark about how the estate was delightfully rustic, and we did not always need all the comforts of the city.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell observed "My lord king, I mistakenly believed that you savored the comforts of the palace, and that rustic life did not appeal."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles smiled cruelly "Cromwell, In the past year we have seen precious little of the comforts of the court, or even those of a rustic manor. Thanks to your army, we have been hounded from pillar to post, and many is the time we have spent the night at some peasant's rude hut or shepherd's hovel. King Amrik's court is a different tenor from the one we keep, but enjoyable none the less. The past few days is the first opportunity we have had simply to relax and enjoy life, free from the worries of the crown, and free from the threats of your soldiers. Glittering balls and witty repartee have their place, but quiet conversation, card games or board games and the quiet rustic life also have their attractions. This estate may be rustic, but its facilities are the equal of those in our palaces in England. We intend to enjoy our stay here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini asked "You majesty, it is a concern to us that you do enjoy your stay here, but we are unsure what that may require."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 King Charles smiled at her. "Contrary to what the puritans may say, we have simple tastes. Court life can be frenetic, almost everyone at court wants something from us, and we have very little privacy. Over the past year away from court we have been discovering what it means to be a private citizen, though much of that time has been spent in fear for our lives. Since arriving in Aquilonia we have been able to relax for the first time in many months. We intend to spent time doing what pleases us, free from regard for the desires of our courtiers. We believe there is much here that will interest us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm glad of that. Are your rooms to your liking? Are the facilities up to what you expect?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We must confess they are much more palatial than many rooms in which we have stayed in recent months. The d_cor may not be quite as sumptuous as our palace, but the facilities are on par. We do not have..." he paused, obviously searching for words "piped water. Is there a word for that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We use the word plumbing in English. It includes piped water, flushing toilets and so on."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The king nodded. "England does not have plumbing, few manors even have internal toilets or kitchens. A special bathing room is quite unknown. We would say that the facilities of your manor are the equal of our palaces in England. King Amrik's palace in Tarantia has features we did not dream existed. We should like to install er\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0 plumbing in our palaces when we return, and we have in mind to construct a special bath house and er... sauna."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Come to think of it, while our manor did not have piped water or flushing toilets in the rooms, there was a bath house and sauna, the kitchen did have piped water, albeit pumped by a horse powered pump into a tank, and the ground floor did have several flushing toilets. We could not install plumbing to the upper floors simply because the water tower was not high enough to give any water pressure. One of many things we intended to change in the near future.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles concluded "When we said 'delightfully rustic' we implied no criticism."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero asked "Do any of you enjoy hunting? We have wild boar in the forest, and there are wild goats in the mountains. I would like to arrange a hunt if any of you would be interested in participating."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were several takers including king Charles. It seemed that most of the nobles enjoyed hunting. They might not be so enthusiastic when they realized that Prospero meant with bow and arrow, not firearms.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula rolled her eyes and commented to Liz "Men's business."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz replied "There's nothing wrong with hunting, provided you eat what you kill"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, he does that. I'm just not that keen on killing things."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was enthusiastic. "Good, I will arrange one for the next few days. There is also some good trout fishing in some of the streams here. We can provide the fishing gear, I realize most of you gentlemen won't have brought any with you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Baron Laredo chuckled "Marko and I did bring our fishing rods! We fully intend to do some trout fishing while we're here."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero shot back "No wonder you insisted they must travel in the steam ship. You wanted an excuse for some trout fishing!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Only partly true. My craftsmen have reworked the boiler and piping, I wanted to take the ship on a shakedown cruise. Tomorrow when she's cool Marko and I will strip down the boilers and inspect them for problems."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How did it go? How long did the journey take?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We left at dawn, we arrived at Arana not quite ten hours later. By my calculations we averaged about twenty four miles per hour for the entire journey."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was almost a chorus of "That's incredible!" from the English.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Laredo continued "We did not run at full power, we kept it under three quarters, so she will go faster yet. There are still some problems with the rudder, but the new bow design of yours means she cuts through the water much more easily."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So where is she now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We put in at the naval docks, and now the marines have her under guard. The naval captains are very interested in the ship, I think we will have to give them a demonstration sometime in the next few days."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert commented "I should like to attend that demonstration, I have not yet seen this steam boat sail."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles himself gave an enthusiastic response, forgetting the royal we in his excitement. "Rupert, you would not believe! The steam ship is four times faster than any sailing ship! There is no paddle wheel as with the steamers our lord admiral has experimented with. The best he has managed is no more than twice the speed of a sailing ship. You must see it! I am sure we could build something similar."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert nodded "I believe their steel is superior to ours, your majesty, and they can run their boilers at higher pressure. However, I have seen how the ship is propelled. They have some large brass screw device that spins, I would wish to experiment with that when we return to England."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good, good, it shall be so."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "There are actually two screws or propellers, and they rotate in opposite directions. We have found that a single one is less stable, and has more vibration."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What was that about the bow design?" Rupert asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, we found that the bow shape of a typical wooden sailing ship is too blunt for high speed. The boat tends to ram the waves. For a faster speed the bow must be sharp."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They got into a discussion about ship design, steam engine design and related topics that lasted half the night. We drew king Charles into a game of mahjong, and partnered him with Paula since the rules are complicated. He seemed quite pleased with himself. Prospero's mother sat and talked with the Viharani, several of the puritans including Cromwell wandered over to watch our game of mahjong.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell declared "I am pleased to see it is not cards, nor is it gambling. Both are vices that lead to spiritual ruin."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini observed mildly, "But Cromwell, one can gamble on anything where the outcome is uncertain. You should not blame the game for people's vices."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles added "The lady is right Cromwell. Cards need not be played for wagers. This game could certainly be betted upon."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Humph, then we should ban it in England!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "On the contrary. It has complicated rules like bridge or whist, and takes skill to play. I for one should like to introduce this game to England." He picked up a tile.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula added "We've been teaching Rupert to play, so there would be two of you at court who can play." She paused to confer in a whisper about the tiles in his hand. He selected one and discarded it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I turned to Nalini. <<We should look for a nice mahjong set we can give him as a present.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Yes, but one where the rules are written in decent English. We should probably give a second one to Rupert.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<We'll add them to our shopping list.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With Paula's help, Charles won several games. The puritans could not be drawn into the game, but continued to stand around and watch.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Many things happened over the following five weeks. Nalini and I returned to Brisbane once, accompanied by Liz, Paula and Rupert. Durathror and Ra'anor guided us and did the shifting, which allowed us to move in large shifts and reach Brisbane in about half an hour instead of six hours. Rupert, naturally enough, was astonished by everything he saw.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz went to visit her parents, as did Paula, while Nalini and I checked on our business. Though we were now rich enough not to need to keep the business going, neither of us was yet ready to sell the business or close it down. Among other things, it provided us with an island of normality in a world that was becoming increasingly strange.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert stayed with us for the day, as Liz said she was not ready to introduce him to her parents. I think part of it may have been that she was too embarrassed to introduce him. We had told Rupert she was Nalini's cousin the Lady Elizabeth, we needed to explain away that little white lie before introducing him to an ordinary couple living in an ordinary suburban house. He also needed some schooling in how to behave in our society. Nalini and I even joked with Rupert that it wouldn't do for him to go around calling Liz "My fair lady".  We stayed there one night, which was long enough to give Rupert a brief tour, then Nalini, Durathror and I departed for Nalini's home shadow to visit her parents. To avoid shocking them, we went first to Nalini's shadow Brisbane, where she telephoned them to say we were dropping in for a quick visit. The distance from Brisbane to Sydney where her parents live is about twelve hundred kilometers, but travelling through shadow with Durathror meant we covered the distance in about twenty minutes. He left us at Nalini's apartment, saying he would return the next morning. We cleaned the apartment, checked her email, and then caught a taxi to Nalini's parents. Nalini's car was currently in our garage in my shadow Brisbane; normally we drive through shadow from there to her shadow Sydney.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They are always very happy to see her, although to them she is something of the black sheep of the family. Her father is a diplomat, her mother a doctor. Nalini is the eldest child, and the only one not to be officially married and the only one not to have given them grand children. She also dropped out of medical school and took off travelling, disappearing for several years. They know nothing of shadows or shadow shifting, as far as they are concerned we are based in Brisbane, but spend much of our time travelling the world for our work. Nalini has even hinted that we are some sort of government agents trouble shooting world problems. We hadn't intended to tell them that, but they came around one day to clean her apartment and discovered the pistols in their box in the wardrobe, and a set of false ids for another shadow.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini's mother had asked "Nalini, who is Angela Quek?" referring to the name on Nalini's false id.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh mother!" Nalini had replied. "You've been prying!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Telling them we were government agents seemed the easiest way, forestalling questions about what we did. If we made things up we'd trip up. Nalini's father was more understanding. He concurred that such work wasn't normally dangerous, but false ids were needed to ensure agents could not be traced back to their real identities.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini's mother had protested "But you could have been a doctor Nalini! A respected job, good income, and you'd be here in Sydney."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If I were a doctor, I'd want to work in third world countries and do some good for people. And that is dangerous!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Oddly enough they regard me as some sort of stabilizing influence, but I think they have watched her blossom since she met me.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 This time we had some good news for them, we had set a date for our wedding. They were delighted at that. We also had to warn them that some of our guests would be a little odd.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What do you mean by odd?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Some will be from foreign countries and they don't speak English or they speak it badly."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But that isn't odd. There are still a number of countries where they don't speak English." Nalini's father responded. "Would any of them perhaps be from a country you have helped recently?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We both smiled at that. I responded "We can't really say, but it might be possible that there may be people from a certain country which is moving toward Westminster style democracy. Of course, it would be nothing official, and the country might not like to admit that it has outside advisors\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u224\'E0" I let things trail off, knowing that Nalini's father would draw his own conclusions.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Her father smiled knowingly. "There are a number of countries in that position. They want the benefits of the British Empire, but publicly they must revile us as oppressive overlords. One wrong word leaked could damage their political credibility at home. Just let us know if they have any special requirements, such as special foods and so on, and whether they can't be seated near one another. You can trust us to behave with the utmost discretion."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini laughed softly. "I know I can trust you and mother, but it's the other relatives that could talk."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stayed late into the evening, and Nalini's brother and sister dropped in for dinner, with their spouses and children.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The wedding did present some logistic problems. There would be a Viharani contingent and an Aquilonian contingent. Both those parties knew about shadow shifting, and would not present a problem. But there was my family to consider. If we invited them someone would have to bring them, and then there would be no way to keep the secret of shadows quiet. We had a reluctance to publicize this, we both felt the governments of our respective shadows would want to investigate us if they knew about us, and we preferred to avoid that. Well, something to think about and resolve over the next few months. If they knew about shadows, some things would be simpler.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 While we went to two shadow earths, Prospero organized his hunt with the rest of the nobles who were our guests. They caught several animals, probably wild boar and goat, but Nalini and I weren't that interested. He also taught the English the joys of trout fishing, and seemed to have made a number of conversions, including both Charles and Cromwell. As Prospero remarked, they finally had something in common.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles and Cromwell also had a number of talk sessions moderated by Prospero and Durathror. Nalini and I attended some but lost interest in the proceedings. Some issues were resolved, while some weren't. Prospero finally lost patience and decreed that he would set the solution, whether they liked it or not. That solution would be based on what Aquilonia had decided to do in similar circumstances. Otherwise he and I would act as judges, and make an equitable judgement. I wondered how well it would work.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It was late summer here in Aquilonia, so the farm was busy with harvest time. The cherries had been and gone, the pears were ripe, the apples ripening, as were the plums, peaches and apricots. We had intended to head home after three weeks, but two things intervened. The first was the harvest; the second was preparations for returning the English to their home shadow.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Each fruit ripens at a slightly different date from the others, so one week might be spent harvesting apricots, the next peaches, and then plums. Later would be the grapes, the apples, the corn and the walnuts.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When a fruit is in season you tend to gorge on that fruit. Some is preserved as jam, cooked with sugar and bottled, or drowned in brandy and bottled, while some is converted into wine. Some of that wine is then distilled into brandy. We supervised the making of apricot wine, peach wine and plum wine, plus of course the grape harvest which is almost entirely intended for wine making. Some of the apples would be converted into cider. The grape wines were by far the greatest quantity, and were destined for sale, though we would retain a few barrels. The fruit wines and brandies were almost entirely for consumption by the estate.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 In about six to eight weeks after starting the wines, the estate would commence distilling part of the wine to make brandy. For those of you who have never tasted them, brandies made from fruit are quite delightful. Our estate made cherry brandy, peach brandy, apricot brandy, pear brandy, plum brandy, apple brandy, and grape brandy. Some of the brandy from the previous year is used to preserve some of the current fruit harvest. As I have said before, the estate is a working estate, and is largely self-sufficient.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 One little treat during harvest season is to pick fresh corncobs and barbecue them. There is also much drinking done to fortify the fruit pickers, who then proceed to sing harvest songs while they work. Harvest time is almost one long party.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I took part in the harvest. The first time, Maraldo protested "But lord, we have sufficient workers, there is no need for you to work."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I smiled at him "Maraldo, my parents have fruit trees, I have always helped to pick fruit each harvest season. Why should this one be any different? Just find us some baskets, and we'll help out."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 His expression said I wasn't behaving how he expected, but he fetched some baskets. "I'm afraid we don't have another ladder sir."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I see. We'll just have to make do then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror laughed, picked up a basket and floated into the air. "We Viharani have no need for ladders!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 And so Durathror, Ra'anor, Imladril, Iskandor, Liz and Paula all joined Nalini and I in harvesting the fruits of our estate. Prospero and Rupert stood around watching us and offering comment. That surprised me a little, because Prospero has helped back home.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula commented "In Brisbane he's one of the boys, here he's a lord and he tries to behave the right way."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey Prospero, you're missing out on the fun!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "My fun is in watching you clamber over those trees, and in eating the fruit you pick!" He was munching on an apricot as he spoke. "These are good!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A little later the English came into the orchard to observe. King Charles made a remark about how wonderful harvest time was back in England, and how he enjoyed seeing trees full of ripe fruit. Then he spotted Durathror floating around a tree, picking fruit from the top most branches. "Prince Durathror, how in heaven's name are you floating in the air?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is a simple application of natural laws your majesty. Everyone knows that birds fly because they have wings, but few people know that the muscles at the rear of the shoulders are part of that power. With diligent practice it is possible to use one's shoulder muscles to generate enough lifting force to enable one to float in the air like this."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Really? We think it should be fun to fly! Could you teach us, Prince Durathror?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Assuredly your majesty, though it may take many years before you can gain the strength. We can start soon if you would like."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I had a little trouble keeping a straight face, but Durathror carried it off convincingly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The English walked around in groups of twos and threes, inspecting what we were doing, and sampling the fruit from baskets the workers brought to the horse drawn carts.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell walked over to the tree where Nalini and I were working. "It is a joy to behold god's bounty. You have a considerable orchard here lord Daniel."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We do, but it must feed everyone on the estate, and we have at least fifty workers plus their families, and the platoon of soldiers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He watched us picking fruit in silence, then stated "I might add it is a joy to behold a lord working up an honest sweat toiling in his fields." He was smiling.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do you mean that most lords work up a dishonest sweat over their money boxes?" I quipped in return. "Nalini and I have a simple outlook on life- anyone who is too good to work doesn't need to eat. I have done this since I was a child, I enjoy helping out at harvest time. And it gives me a good feeling when I eat to be able to look at the food and know that I helped it grow."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is a good philosophy, we should never forget our roots. I too have an estate back in England, and I enjoy helping with the harvest. We do not have the variety of fruit that you seem to be able to grow here. May I help?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Sure. You'll notice that there are two sets of baskets. The good fruit goes in one set, that we'll eat or preserve. The squashy or damaged fruit goes in the other set; they will be used to make apricot wine and apricot brandy."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He began to pick fruit. When two baskets filled up, I grabbed them and took them over to the horse drawn cart. When I returned, Prospero picked up two more baskets and took them away. With several people picking, baskets fill rapidly, and we needed people to take time out to empty them. Prospero and I took it in turns to empty the baskets were we were working. Rupert seemed to feel guilty standing around, and wandered over to where Liz and Paula were working.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As I said, you tend to gorge on one variety of fruit for a week or so before the next variety is ready. By that time you are almost sick of eating the same fruit, and are waiting eagerly for the next. We were there for the apricots, plums, peaches and grapes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik and Enyil arrived in time for the grape harvest. Some of the grapes would be for eating, but most were destined for wine making. Since wine was a product we sold, this was a fairly large operation. Amrik walked around the fields for an hour or so, carrying buckets of grapes back to the carts, then he took a turn at the crushing. I should point out that in Aquilonia we do not crush grapes by stamping on them, instead there is a machine with a series of large rollers inside that are turned to squash the grapes into the vats. Two horses that walk in circles around a central pivot supply motive power for the rollers; in other words the crusher is a two horse power unit. Men are needed to carry buckets of grapes from the carts to the top of the crusher, the buckets are heavy, and there are steps. I think many farm workers were shocked to see their king carrying buckets of grapes like a common laborer, but that was one characteristic that endeared him to his people.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Until then I think some of the workers had been uneasy about the nobles helping out. Amrik became involved in a drinking contest with the men crushing the grapes. They would drink a small glass of brandy after each cart was emptied into the crusher. With Amrik helping to carry the grapes the carts were unloaded faster, and they drank more. By the time we broke for lunch, two of the workers were roaring drunk, leaning their arms around Amrik's neck in order to stand, and all three were singing bawdy songs at the top of their voices.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Maraldo sought me out. "Sir, what should I do? The two should be disciplined for drinking so much, but they could easily claim the king encouraged them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would let them off this time, as you said, they were drinking with the king. But if they get drunk tomorrow they should be disciplined."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The manager had arranged for a number of tables to be set up in the shade of the winery building. We appropriated one and ate whatever food was provided to the workers. I think Wilomo and the kitchen staff may have cringed at the thought, and it is possible that better food had been prepared for us. However, I was trying to set the precedent that everyone on the estate works, and that all people should be treated equally. Amrik in his own inimitable way was doing the same.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik was no where near as drunk as he seemed. When he joined us for lunch, his speech was slightly slurred, but otherwise he seemed none the worse for the drink.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I haven't done that for ages!" he enthused.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And hopefully you won't need to drink so much for ages again." Enyil chided gently.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hah! You have to drink at the grape harvest! I haven't been to one since my family was killed." He looked a little sad. "Enyil, as king I cannot do these things, surely here amongst my friends I can drink a little while we harvest grapes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course Amrik, my love. But it would sadden me if you were to become as drunk as those workers, and I thought you were that drunk." She indicated the two, who were now sitting in the shade, too drunk to stand.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now, it would take a lot to make me legless. The only time I have done that was the night we captured Sorono, and everyone was celebrating. You have never seen me more than slightly merry. I shan't drink more than I have."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He was true to his word, in his own way. At lunch he drank only water, but one incident caused him to revert briefly to wine mixed with water.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A young mother was sitting at one of the tables, and began feeding her baby. None of the Aquilonians seemed to notice, though several of the puritans stared and passed remarks.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini turned to Cromwell and commented acidly "Cromwell, it may surprise you, but this is what god designed a woman's breasts for. They are not sexual playthings for men, they are for feeding babies. Shame on you for being offended at god's handiwork, or are you filled with lustful thoughts at the sight of a young female breast?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He spluttered and turned red. She continued "If you have lustful thoughts lord Cromwell, I'm afraid that is your problem, you must learn self control. If god's handiwork offends, then you are a sorry case and are not fit to be a spiritual leader." She shrugged. "Don't look then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked mightily offended, but managed to respond calmly "I apologize lady Nalini. We are offended at such a sight. As you say, this is their natural function, perhaps we should not be so offended, though I would prefer that she did not sit at the table, but somewhere else."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You puritans have a problem with bodily functions, Lord Cromwell. God designed our bodies as they are" they became embroiled in a discussion about why puritans thought the human body sinful and dirty.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Sir Mark Fairfax, the Scottish puritan general, and Baron Henry Shelley, one of the English parliamentarians, were expressing disgust for the sight, when Amrik strolled up and clapped both of them on the shoulder. Taller than both of them, he forcibly turned them around. He shifted his grip, then his muscles bulged under his shirt, and he lifted both men from their feet, forcing his face close to theirs. "One more peep from either of you black birds of ill omen and I will bash your heads together, is that clear?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They nodded wordlessly. He set them down again, dusted his hands against their jackets. He grinned an evil grin. "Then to show there is no ill will, come and drink with me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Sir Mark shook his head. "I'm sorry your majesty, I do not drink."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Which explains why you have such a sour disposition. That was not a request." He finished flatly "You will drink with me now." }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He clapped a hand on each one's shoulder, propelled them to his table. He called for a jug of wine and beer steins then poured each of them a large measure of wine. Enyil handed him a stein which we later learned was half full of water. He sloshed wine into his stein, then sculled the lot.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now, drink up!" he encouraged the two. They pulled faces, but drank. He refilled their tankards while Enyil grabbed his, poured water, then when he relinquished the jug, topped up his tankard for him. He sculled his again, and encouraged the others. The last of the wine he split between their two tankards. Enyil poured water into his. He sculled his water, set the empty tankard down with satisfaction. }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah! An honest day's toil makes a man thirsty! Don't you feel better now?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Henry said sourly "I think I feel sick."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nonsense lad, you've drunk scarcely two glasses. A strapping lad like you should be able to handle that much wine with no problems at all."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The effect of a bit more than a bottle of wine each on the two puritans was almost comical. After about fifteen minutes they were slurring their words, and having trouble standing. Neither of them was sick, there wasn't sufficient wine for that, but after half an hour, both of them were asleep at the table.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At our table, Cromwell was waxing lyrical about cleanliness, and how the human body was filth, and sinful. Nalini interrupted "If you are so sure that you need to be clean, why then do you puritans have so much trouble with washing yourselves?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I added "We find the rancid odor of unwashed bodies quite offensive."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew stated "We find your bath houses offensive."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why so?" Nalini asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You can always order hot water brought to your rooms." I added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I believe we are used to England, where there is no need to wash daily." Cromwell replied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew commented "There are naked women in the bath house!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why is it so hard to wash daily? Why must you leave it until you are so dirty you stink?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell nodded "I must agree with you, lady Nalini. We should wash daily; warmed water does make the task more pleasant. But we will not use your public bath house."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do you find the sight of a naked female offensive, or does it arouse lustful thoughts?" Nalini asked both of them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is offensive to behold human nakedness!" Matthew stated forthrightly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And the sight might arouse lustful thoughts in the younger men." Cromwell added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why do you find the human body so offensive? We are made in god's own image, do you find god's image and god's handiwork offensive?" Nalini pressed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But lady Nalini, god himself has directed us that we must cover our nakedness. Why, there is the case of the punishment he meted out to Noah's son when he looked upon his father's nakedness."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I held up my hand "Lord Cromwell, that is the old testament, you and Matthew were going to work through the old testament and determine what pronouncements pertained to the old covenant and which pertained to the new. But no one is suggesting public nakedness, merely while you are performing your ablutions."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But others may gaze upon one's nakedness!" Matthew protested. Cromwell seconded that.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini snorted derisively "No one is likely to want to gaze at your nakedness Cromwell. Aquilonians will ignore you. But you will have to do the same, and not gaze at others who are naked. If you can't control yourselves, then you should stay away from a public bathhouse."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We have no intention of ever venturing inside one!" Cromwell stated primly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, no one would stop you, lord Cromwell, but perhaps we should explain the etiquette to both of you. Firstly, there are disrobing rooms, and they are segregated. Most people do not take valuables into a bathhouse, they wear a bathing robe, and bring another clean one for after. If you do bring valuables, you can leave them with an attendant. You undress in the disrobing room, and take your towel and a wash cloth with you into the main bathing room. Many people do arrange to drape their towel strategically across their fronts so that their bodies are partially obscured."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 They were both silent, listening. "Secondly, inside the bathing room, you will find wooden stools and wooden buckets arranged around the walls. Etiquette demands that you do not stare at other people. There are attendants there who ensure that the buckets are filled with water, and can assist you if you are elderly and cannot bend easily."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Both men made faces. Nalini responded "Suppose you had arthritis, lord Cromwell, how then would you wash yourself properly? You would need help to wash those areas you could not reach." The thought did not seem to please him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "When you wash yourselves, you sit on the stool facing the wall." I continued. "You will find that the men use one side of the room, and the women use the other side. When you wash yourself, you use the dipper to splash water over your body or wet your washcloth, you don't place your cloth or hands into the buckets. You soap yourself, wash with your wash cloth, and rinse the soap off using the dipper. There should always be two buckets, one with hot water, and one with cold water, and usually you finish the washing process by splashing cold water over yourself. The attendant can hold a bucket for you while you wash your hair, and pour water over your head to rinse the soap off. Once you are clean, you can towel yourself dry, and go."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is all?" Cromwell asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Matthew added "You mean there are no licentious acts taking place?" he sounded almost disappointed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There is nothing of a sexual nature taking place." Nalini replied. "A bath house is for bathing. Once you have washed yourself, you can go home, or you can use one of the pools or the sauna."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And they are communal are they not?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Lord Cromwell, people take towels with them." I replied. "In the sauna most people will cover their genitals with a towel. Many people will cover themselves with a towel until they get into the water, and there is quite an art in keeping the towel in place but removing it as you enter the water so the towel does not become wet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "There is a hot pool, a tepid pool and a cold pool. Normally you would start with the hot pool, move to the tepid one, then to the cold one. Some sauna users will plunge directly into the cold pool, but that can cause headaches. They should always enter a pool feet first, so there isn't a shock to the brain."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh" Cromwell said thoughtfully "you are sure nothing lewd or lascivious happens?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nothing lord Cromwell."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And let me remind you that you are not supposed to stare at other people." I added. "Of course, if your puritans have trouble with lustful thoughts, then it would be better that you stay away from the public bathhouse."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "In the city the public baths are full almost all day, but here they are empty almost all day. Before we arrived, the water wasn't even heated until the afternoon, but now it will be hot by noon. If we work out we will bathe afterwards; we normally bathe before dinner, but most of the staff will not bath until after nine in the evening, when their duties have finished. If you pick your time, you can find the baths deserted."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You do make them seem quite innocuous." Cromwell replied. "But we shall not venture in there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Cromwell, essentially it's a working solution to the problem of keeping the public clean. Heating quantities of water for bathing is best done in large tubs, and the bathhouses provide the entire infrastructure for keeping yourself clean. Let's face it, most of the English stink because bathing is such a chore. A public bathhouse makes it much easier."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell replied thoughtfully. "When you explain things, it does seem like a reasonable solution. However, I would prefer completely segregated bathing. But I suppose that would entail either duplicate pools, or setting different times for men and women to bathe, and neither may be practical."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Cromwell, you've missed an important point. The public bathing isn't a problem, it's an individual's attitudes to it that determine whether he or she commits a sin when they bathe in public. As I explained, a bathhouse is not a place for lust, but if an individual has trouble with lustful thoughts then they should stay away."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini giggled "A bucket of cold water might fix most of them!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell managed a smile, though he might have just been polite. "You are right of course, a person's attitude is the main factor that determines whether something is sinful. Perhaps we English are more troubled by sinful thoughts than you Aquilonians."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini had the last word "It could be simply that England being a cold climate, you are always dressed in lots of clothes. So a tradition has grown up from ignorance that bathing causes disease, and that naked bodies are sinful of their own nature. A lot of Europeans come from warmer climes, they are less concerned about the sight of naked flesh."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 No, we didn't mention the fact that some of the more northern countries like Sweden and Denmark also indulged in public saunas.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After the grape harvest, Maraldo and Katerina were married, and moved together into the newly built manager's cottage. We gave some gifts, but tried to stay out of the limelight during the wedding, after all, this was their night, not ours. Wilomo made some demurral, but Amrik settled it by declaring he would not attend unless he was given a table amongst the rest of the guests.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 While Wilomo would argue with Nalini and I about how something should be done, he didn't dare argue with king Amrik. And so, Maraldo and Katerina numbered King Amrik amongst their guests, and Amrik danced with the bride on her wedding night.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Amrik also presided over the final negotiations between king Charles and Cromwell, and wanted a briefing on what they had agreed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The final result of the negotiations was that king Charles and Cromwell made concessions. Each house could introduce laws, or veto them, as could the king. The analogy that Prospero used was that of a stool with three legs. There was to be one law for all, with the lords and the king subject to the law like everyone else. Certain basic rights were guaranteed by the king, as part of his sacred trust to the people. The rights included freedom of religion, guarantee of land tenure, minimum wages for workers. The puritans were not happy about the guarantee of religious freedom, until Amrik told them bluntly that he'd have them strung up for treason unless they cooperated. Cromwell saw the light of reason and capitulated on this.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The death sentence and the outlawry on the king were to be rescinded. The witch persecution would be dismantled. All lands and property confiscated were to be returned to their rightful owners, or their heirs. Where this was impossible, some form of compensation would be worked out, and would also be worked out for each execution. Cromwell seemed to have no trouble agreeing to that, maintaining all the while he was loyal to his king, and merely wished to stop the civil war. It was likely that he planned to renege once he was back in England.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were a lot of lesser items and some cross guarantees that would see Cromwell as the parliamentary leader for five years, but with the promise to work closely with the king to ensure that the reforms they'd jointly agreed to were implemented. The electoral system would also be reformed to ensure greater }
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I wouldn't say that Cromwell and king Charles were friends, but they had a working relationship. We all knew there would be some fine-tuning on the ground, but there would be an Aquilonian embassy in London, along with several Viharani to monitor proceedings and ensure that things did not get out of hand.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With that settled, it was time to return the puritans and king Charles to England.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                ###}}