{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Cambria-Bold;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi284\ri-597\ql\ltrch\loch {\f1\fs32\b1\i0 Chapter}{\f2\fs22\b0\i0  10}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A little later, we were all seated around a large table, drinking spirits. Even the puritans seemed to be in need of some for medicinal purposes. We all felt as if we had just awakened from a really nasty nightmare. There was nothing to indicate that anything physical had happened save for the shards of yellow crystal on the floor, and the fact that nagging aches and pains had vanished. Nalini and I had questions, but Durathror had indicated he would answer them later. Now was the time to assuage any fears of the English.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell spoke slowly, speaking for most of us. "What really happened earlier? I would almost believe it a dream, save my arthritis no longer troubles me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror nodded. "You should consider it a dream, one in which Brass sought to destroy our souls. However, God in his infinite wisdom chose to interfere on your behalves. Or you could consider it as a physical experience. Either way, we were all within a cat's whisker of destruction."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was general nodding and noises of agreement:}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "'Twas like a nightmare!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It seemed I was cut in pieces!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I thought I lost a leg..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...a hand..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...an eye..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I thought I was disemboweled, and would die painfully. Far better the headsman's axe than that!" Charles unconsciously rubbed his belly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And I thought I should bleed to death because my arm was all but hacked off." Cromwell looked grim for a moment. "I think we have proved to ourselves that the devil sets traps for all of us, and his traps are both deadly and subtle. We must thank god for delivering us, and all of you for fighting with us in this. What manner of demon was this Brass?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now that is difficult to explain. There is a hierarchy of beings, all with different powers. I am not prepared to explain that in detail. Suffice it to say that there are the old gods, who are barred from these realms, and there are the young gods who can interact here. Many are capricious, uncaring, and behave like spoilt brats. You would probably call them demons, but they are not, they are more like earthly despots. Each god has his or her own realm. They cannot manifest in the physical world without a heart. That of Brass has been destroyed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why did he not die immediately when his heart was removed?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He is a god, his spirit is powerful. His body died once the heart was removed, but until his heart was destroyed there was little to stop him reclaiming it and making a new body. He must now set about creating a new heart before he can return. But do not worry, that will take hundreds or even thousands of years."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell turned to indicate Nalini and I. "What manner of beings are these two, if they could destroy a demon?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror permitted himself a smile. "They had help from above. Otherwise they are as human as the rest of us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell permitted himself a slight smile. "I never thought I should see the day when an elf would describe himself as human. You realize that the existence of gods is not something I had admitted in the past. For me, there is only one god, and all the rest are demons."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But does not god in the Old Testament tell Moses that we must have no other gods before him? He does not say he is the only god, and the rest are demons or false gods, only that there are many gods, but we must worship only him?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is true. I had overlooked that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think we all overlooked that" Charles submitted "thinking that the roman gods were but figments or demons. If these gods exist, then are they a danger to us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They are all a danger to us!" Cromwell responded indignantly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am not talking about worship. I meant do they pose a threat to we Christians? Are some of those primitive pagan tribes worshiping powerful gods that could harm us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror shook his head slowly. "Gods have powers, but they are barred from acting directly. Instead they must go through human agents, or manifest as a human, which usually requires going through the birth process. There are those like Brass who try to act directly from time to time, but if they step over the bounds of what is permitted, they set in motion the process to redress that. He overstepped the bounds with us, so the process of redress acted through us. We were lucky to survive, it could so easily have gone differently, with Brass banished and the rest of us destroyed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell pursed his lips. "I fear I viewed the world too narrowly in the past, and that lead to my errors. I believe we shall all read our bibles in new light and understanding, based on our recent experiences. Is it really finished though? Nothing else will come to haunt our dreams, and tempt us into evil?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is finished, Brass is no more. His minions will not trouble you. You may all sleep safely in your beds. But" Durathror wagged his finger at Cromwell "You have set yourselves up as the moral authority on earth, as God's own representatives. Others will seek to pull you from that pedestal. God himself will test you, and punish you if you fall short. He has already tested you once, and found all of you wanting. Remember that if you set yourself in authority over others, then you will be judged all the more harshly, for you must set the example."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Argyll looked at Cromwell, then at Durathror. "I think we shall be doubly wary from now on."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell shook his head, turned and spoke to the others. "We set ourselves up as God's representatives, prince Durathror is right. God did not appoint us, we appointed ourselves. In our pride we have made many mistakes, and God tested us and found us sorely wanting. I for one will devote the rest of my life to rectifying the evil we have done in God's name!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The others echoed his sentiments. "The parliament will revoke all the evil laws it has passed. We are agreed on that." Argyll added. "And we shall restore the king to his throne. It is the pattern that god in his infinite wisdom has set, we should not look to set his patterns aside."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles added "Gentlemen, I have also realized that I was not as good a king as I should be. I too acted from pride. I have agreed to the curbs on the powers of the monarch, now I desire that we all work together to put England back on her feet, and make her the best country on earth. Cromwell, I wish you to remain as the Lord Protector, someone must lead the parliament, I think we have learned to respect one another."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I thank you, my king. I believe we can work well together. I have always respected the monarchy." Cromwell suddenly raised his glass. "A toast. To King Charles, long may he reign!" Everyone drank.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles responded "We should meet here tomorrow to finalize the details of the government, and sign the agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have much work on the morrow, I suggest we not tarry overlong tonight."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Is it safe to go to sleep?" one of the puritans asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "As safe as any other time." Durathror replied. "Brass can no longer invade your dreams, his minions are scattered and lack direction. Any problems you encounter will be of your own making."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell observed "I do not think I will ever regard dreaming in quite the same way now. It is quite a shock to realize that one's dreams are as real as waking."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles smiled "And I shall not regard four stone walls and iron bars as a secure prison when I know that there are those who can walk into a parallel world. The more so to think that there are many parallel worlds all around us even now. The world is suddenly much stranger than it seemed only a few weeks ago."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It makes one feel very small and insignificant, does it not?" Matthew added. "I will no longer have quite the same certainty that I know what god wants me to do. I think we have all realized we are human, and fallible."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And gentlemen, I trust that all of you will act with more compassion toward your fellow man, and be forgiving of the sinners, as Jesus did." Durathror was smiling, and there was a twinkle in his eye.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell and Matthew looked at one another, Matthew spoke. "We have much reform work to do, and some of the tenets of our faith need to be reconsidered in the light of what we have learned. We call ourselves the New Covenanters, it is a shock to realize we had more in common with the old than the new."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We talked a little longer, then adjourned for the night. As our group walked along the corridor toward the wing we occupied, Amrik clapped an arm around my shoulder, and one around Durathror's. "I trust you will join me for a night cap?" A little later, those of us from other shadows gathered in Amrik's stateroom for more discussion. Prince Rupert accompanied us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "By the gods Durathror, I have never been so close to dying as this evening!" Amrik exclaimed as he sat down on a chair. "Feeling my entrails spill onto the ground was an experience I hope never to repeat! I want no more truck with gods!" He gestured for all of us to sit and help ourselves to drinks. Everyone did.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am inclined to agree. This is twice we have faced down a god, but each time we have won." Durathror responded. "We have tales to tell our grandchildren!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If we live that long! But only because of Danny and Nalini. Without them we would all be dead."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Without them this may never have started." Durathror opined. "They were the ones who walked into Rupert's shadow in the first place."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Actually, it was Paula and Prospero." I commented. "They were navigating and shifting, we were just supervising."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But had they not ventured into my shadow, I should be dead these past five weeks, my bones bleaching on Marston moor." Rupert added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And you have to admit that much of what happened over the past few weeks was for Prospero rather than anyone else." Imladril added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero! This is the last time I go shadow walking with you!" Amrik stated gruffly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero held up his right hand, flexed it. "The battle you can walk away from can't be all bad. Now that I am alive and in one piece, I can say that I am glad to have been through the adventure. But I feel I have seen enough adventure for some time to come. I hope never again to see my own hand sailing through the air gripping my sword!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert snorted. "I have the singular experience of actually dying, watching the battle from somewhere overhead, and then being restored to life. Is that what truly happens, that we float away from our dead bodies?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, and you go into the dreaming." Ra'anor responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We discussed the process of dying and death for some minutes before Rupert observed "It is almost as if I was rescued from one death, and had to pay for that by another. How was I resurrected?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We had his heart in our possession..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...and with it we were able to will is so..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The god's heart confers his powers upon the holder. There are several sagas told of gods who have had their hearts stolen, and adventurers who seek their hearts. To possess a god's heart is to become a god, but unless you are already a god, or unless the god uses his powers to protect you, the first time you try to use it would burn you to ash."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why did that fate not befall Danny and Nalini? And how did they manage to destroy the god? Is it some power in their dagger, or are they gods themselves?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is something Danny and I are very curious about as well. There is power in our gems, but there seemed to be a core buried within us that opened to release that power."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And we remembered dying on a chaos blade back in the dim past." I added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And Brass thought he recognized us as he died. He whispered some name."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror held up both hands to gain attention. "I was linked with you two while the process happened, and since I had my own eyes burned out, I had much interest in observing through your eyes. I do not know for certain what happened, but I can give you my opinion."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think we all leaned forward to hear better. Durathror looked around our group, then looked directly at Nalini and myself. His gaze seemed reflective, slightly sad. "I know what you two think, that once upon a time you were gods yourselves, and that you have an unbreakable bond. That in some long forgotten battle, eons ago, Nalini died upon a chaos blade, and Danny in his grief followed her. A chaos blade destroys both body and soul, and will destroy the essence of a god if wielded by another god. No one else could handle the release of power. I know I threatened Brass with his own blade, but had I tried to use it, I would have died. If that had happened to Danny and Nalini, neither of them would now exist."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But Durathror, we are not gods, we cannot say whether it happened and that they survived." Imladril interrupted. "That could be one reason for the Eagle arranging for them to be given their gems."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You are right sister, we cannot truly say. This is my own opinion, but it is based upon what I observed. I will grant that it is possible that both were once gods, and somehow managed to avoid the final death. But I do not think it is the case."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then how did they survive the chaos blade this time, and manage to turn the god's heart against him? How did they survive the previous time against the serpent?" Amrik countered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror smiled. "Amrik my friend, I am working my way to explaining that, if you will let me. Danny and Nalini are soulmates, that we know. That is a bond stronger than almost any other. But being soulmates is a very intense experience, they are thrown together for a life, many things happen, some of them quite painful. They spend their next lives apart, and go around ever feeling empty, half alive, because their other half is missing. They have been through much over their many lives, but they are not gods, any more than you or I are."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He paused to drink some wine. "Talking's thirsty work! Now, both Danny and Nalini have progressed to the point where they can become sorcerers. I do not find it strange that the workings of power singles them out to give them a gift of power."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What do you mean by the workings of power?" Rupert queried.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I could argue that the eagle could foresee the adventures they would have, and so gave them a gift that would enable him to play a part against the gods they will encounter. Twice now I have been present when they have banished gods who overstepped the boundaries. That gives me reason to think that I should avoid any further adventures that they become embroiled in!" He smiled as he said it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Brother, you would be bored if you could not have adventures, and you gain much pleasure in retelling the tale of the time they banished the serpent god."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You know me well." Durathror admitted. "Yes, I shall probably become embroiled in other adventures they have, and I suspect most strongly that they will have other adventures.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now, as I was saying, they are ordinary mortals, but they are also fledgling sorcerers. So the workings of power arranged for Fin mak Morn to give them each a gift: Nalini has a ring with a magic gem, while Danny has a dagger set with a similar gem. We know the gems are magical, they have many power connections. Right now, many of them are dormant, but that is probably for the best. They are still young in the ways of sorcery, they will need years to grow into power. I want all of you to consider for a moment: to whom did those magic artifacts belong?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was silence, and much looking at one another. "Some god, or perhaps a long dead sorcerer?" Amrik hazarded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror smiled. "With all due respect, I would prefer if my kin tried to answer, they should be in a better position to answer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril looked at him. "Brother, I cannot hazard any better guess than Amrik. We know that Fin mak Morn associated with many dead gods and heroes, many of them from the foremost shadows, closest to the archetype. It could be any of a number of beings."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror smiled and twirled his moustache. "Ah, I keep forgetting that none of you have spent much time with such. I have the advantage then, through Korum I know something more about the primary shadows."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned to the rest of us. "Some of you know most of this, but I ask you to bear with me while I explain to those who do not." He waved his right hand. "Behind everything is what we call the mind of god. Everything that exists, including gods and demons, the world of dreaming, heavens and hells, all are part of the mind of god. The mind of god dreams, and one of its dreams is the archetypes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He waved his left hand. "We know of perhaps eleven thousand different archetypes, there are undoubtedly many more. Rupert, every archetype is different, and sets the pattern for the realm it creates. For example, some archetypes correspond loosely with the four elements, the realms they create are quite different from what we are used to. The mind of god is the light, the archetypes are the source of shadow. Each one casts an infinite number of shadows. Rupert, shadows are the alternate worlds we have traveled through. Our own archetype is that of Duality, Order and Chaos, for neither can exist without the other, like two sides of a coin. Part of the archetype is beings we call the Old Gods. Supreme amongst those are the Eagle and the Serpent. It is wrong to think of them as good and evil, but rather as Order and Chaos, but each has part of both natures, this is because of our archetype. I won't explain this in detail, we would be here all night discussing metaphysics."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He held up his left hand again. "Remember that the light is the Mind of God, it shines upon the Old Gods, and they cast shadows of their own. These shadows we refer to as the New Gods, they are not as powerful as the old gods, but they interfere more in our lives."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Was Brass a New God?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes Amrik, and he still is. By destroying his heart we have banished him from shadow until he can create a new one, but he still exists out there somewhere. No Prospero, don't ask me where banished gods go."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror held up his left hand and moved his right hand around it in a flat circle. "The new gods also cast shadows, powerful human like beings that inhabit the primary shadows. We usually refer to these beings collectively as the Lesser Gods. Some of you know Korum, who by his own admission hales from the primary shadow. He is, to all intents and purposes, a god, albeit a lesser god. I think he would be an equal of Brass in power though. All the denizens from the primary shadows have the potential to create and uncreate shadow, though not many have ever mastered the power required. Korum is one who has."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Korum taught me shadow shifting" Nalini announced. "I knew he was a powerful sorcerer, but I never thought he was that powerful."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a twinkle in Durathror's eye. "Korum likes to masquerade as a simple warrior. He doesn't like to be treated like a god. You are very fortunate he is your friend."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He waved his hands at us. "Let me explain. The shadows spread out from the archetype something like the layers of an onion. The gods both old and new exist somewhere before shadows begin, and so are forbidden to walk in shadow except under controlled conditions that severely limit their powers. The first layer around the archetype is referred to as the primary shadows, or the foremost shadows. They are shadows of the archetype itself. Lesser gods like Korum come from the primary shadows. Because they are shadows, they can walk in shadow without limit to their powers. This is why I said that Korum is as powerful as Brass."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked directly at Liz and Rupert. "The onion simile is not quite correct, but it will do. Imagine the next layer out, this consists of shadows that are shadows of the primary shadows. Does that make sense?" Liz nodded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert asked "You mean that in some odd way, my shadow on the table here could make shadows of its own?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is the concept, although you need to realize that the light is the mind of god, and the shadows are quite powerful beings. A shadow is a pale copy of the original, so the shadows of the lesser gods like Korum are powerful sorcerers, but nowhere near his powers. It progresses outwards from there. We are perhaps seven layers removed from the source, we are not very powerful."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How many layers are there? How difficult is it to travel between them?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror smiled a rueful smile. "The layers stretch to infinity. We would be hard pressed to journey from one layer to the next in less than three or four weeks of continuous travel. Almost all our travels are within our own layer."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is all very interesting, but what does it have to do with Danny and Nalini, or their gems?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, friend Amrik, I am laying down the background for my explanation. There is one more thing I want to say about gods. I used the words 'power to create and uncreate shadows', but none of you asked me what I meant."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Did you not mean as you explained, that Brass casts shadows, one of which is Korum, and he casts shadows?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I feared that might be how you would interpret my words Rupert. When I use the terms create and uncreate I have something more specific in mind. If we go back to our onion simile, consider that most onions have only one heart, but there are some that have more than one, with layers about each heart. I cannot think of better words in English, but shadows are like the onion with many hearts. The main heart is the archetype, the secondary hearts are created by beings with the power to create shadows. Korum is such a being, as is Brass. He abducted us to his own realm, his own set of created shadows. Without his heart, I doubt very much that any of us could have returned from there."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You mean we'd have been trapped there until we died?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Perhaps. I would have done my utmost to contact Korum in dreaming, he would have the power to rescue us, but we would have been trapped until he could."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why is it so difficult to return from Brass' realm?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Because it is so distant. If you consider our onion again, a second heart forms some distance from the center. We are from one of the inner layers, there are many layers between that and the layers around the second heart. The main problem though is that there is a gap between his realm and the... er... main realm. Where we were, that gap is wider than I could cross. It was so wide, I could not perceive shadows on the other side."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was silence for a number of heartbeats while we digested this. Durathror took another drink, then continued "The gems are power objects. A power object is an item that has links to power sources off in shadow somewhere. A powerful sorcerer can make one, but the power of such an object is limited by the power of the sorcerer himself. I will not explain how to make a power object, but the sorcerer must be able to command the power of the source to which the power object is linked. These power objects have many hundreds of links, though as I said, most are dormant. The only ones available at present are those that are the least powerful. I believe that only one of the gods could make these particular power objects."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why do you say that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Because the links I traced are to power sources in other realms, created by gods. Only someone at least as powerful as Korum could travel to other realms and link the gems to those sources." He noted Prospero's raised eyebrows. "Prospero, one of the links was to Brass's own realm, to the lake of blood in which he keeps part of his being. He knows who created those gems. He even used the being's name as he was dying. He believed that Danny and Nalini were the reincarnation of the gem's original owners."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, we thought we might be as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Aren't we?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I have admitted it is possible, but unlikely. What I think happened was that the original owners did indeed die as Danny and Nalini remember. Some of their memories remained in the gems after their deaths. This is the core that hides from you, and opens when either of you are threatened with destruction. Why the eagle has given you such powerful gifts we can only speculate, but I would venture to suggest that banishing gods might be part of it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would say they have changed hands many times since their owners died, and were doubtless the reason why they died." Amrik stated. "I would even guess that others will seek to take the gems from them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror nodded at these words, becoming serious. "I agree with you friend Amrik. The gems carry their own dangers. Using them will attract attention. In the years to come, you two will have to defend your ownership of those gems. I think the eagle will help you there: I do not believe he would have arranged for you to be given those gifts unless there were safeguards to protect you. I am sure that what happened to Brass is one of those safeguards."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We didn't realize they were that powerful..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We assumed that what ever power was there mostly burned out during the confrontation with the serpent."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So did we." Durathror nodded. "But now we know it wasn't, and that the links go to power sources in other realms. None of us can handle that sort of power."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So what are we supposed to do with the gems?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Where can we put them for safe keeping?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There is nowhere you could put them that would be safe. They are linked to you now, they will come when you summon them, regardless of where you put them. You could drop them in the deepest ocean, where only the gods could go, and still the gems would come to you when you called. The gods themselves cannot take them from you because they must destroy your souls to break the link with the gems, and as we have seen, the core will not allow that. Ignorant sorcerers can kill your bodies to possess the gems though. Doing that would not break the link, and the gems would find their way back to you in the next life..." He trailed off, looking thoughtful.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Brother, does that not imply that they were given the gems by Fin mak Morn because they are linked from some previous life? How many lifetimes could that link stretch back?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror snorted. "I know what you are thinking sister, but I will not agree that these two are what is left of banished gods. We can only speculate on what has happened to the gems since their creators died. No doubt they passed through many hands..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril smiled and shook her head. "You know as well as I do that the link can only be broken by the destruction of the spirit, unless they willingly give the gems to someone else. I think that in the core there is sentience as well as memory. The gems have chosen Danny and Nalini for a reason. That suggests to me that they are the remnants of the gems' creators..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror laughed and shook his head. "Perhaps the core is a window to one of the banished gods and the two are the proteges of that god. Sister, they are not fallen gods, their auras are human. The power we observed today came from the hidden core inside the gems." He held up his right forefinger. "That is a separate entity. I am almost convinced it is one of the old gods taking a passing interest in the antics of humans. It has that feel of vastness, coldness, detachment and remoteness."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril pursed her lips thoughtfully. "It did have that feel." She nodded. "Perhaps you are right brother, but only time will tell."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror smiled, nodding. "And we both know that this is not the end of their story. I just hope that the next time they involve us in some dangerous undertaking we do not come quite so close to being destroyed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'll drink to that!" Amrik exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 All of which left Nalini and me feeling a little short changed and a little aggrieved. We would prefer life to be a little more predictable, and offer less lurking dangers.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stayed one more day, spending some time helping the parliament write out the agreement. The king and Cromwell signed it that evening, and the rump parliament assembled ratified the agreement immediately.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The next day Paula, Prospero, Liz, Nalini and I said our goodbyes to the others after breakfast. We promised to be back for the investiture of King Charles in about two weeks. Amrik hugged all of us, and bade us visit him in Aquilonia soon.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You are overdue to visit us Amrik!" Nalini countered.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I know, but I might inconvenience Prospero, he'd feel obliged to bow and scrape before me." Amrik laughed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hah! I don't do that back in Aquilonia. Why should I do that in Brisbane?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay" he responded, using the English word, "If you promise we'll behave like friends, I'll visit as soon as I can make the time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell, King Charles and several other puritans made the effort to see us off as well.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Charles made the surprising gesture of clasping each of us by the hand. "Fare you well, all of you. I owe each of you more than I can ever repay."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 When he shook my hand, I replied "Rather than thinking of repaying a debt of gratitude, pass it on to others. Help those you can. If we all do that, the world will be a better place. We need no other recompense."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded at this, and smiled. "You are wise beyond your years, Lord Daniel. A king must beware of being in debt of gratitude, it gives others leverage over his actions. I will endeavor to pass it on, as you suggest."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini commented "You should come to visit us from time to time. I think you will appreciate being able to get away from the cares of kingship for a time."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thank you young lady. A king can trust no one completely, everyone seeks his favor. Over the past few weeks I have learned that being plain Mr. Charles Stuart has attractions at times. I shall visit when I can find the time. You must all return here to visit us from time to time. You will always be welcome."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero commented "Thank you your majesty. You must visit Aquilonia as well. You are embarking on a new path here with parliament, our two kingdoms can benefit from each other's experience. You will always be welcome with us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Cromwell then shook hands with all of us as well. "It seems strange to shake a lady's hand, but there is something equitable about it. I believe I owe all of you my soul: I unwittingly walked the road to hell, thinking I was doing God's work. You have opened my eyes, and those of my brethren. May God be with you all in your journey, and may you return here swiftly and safely."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 To Nalini and me he added "At first I thought you two were in league with the devil, but now I am sure are messengers from god, or perhaps angels in disguise. I own that you have abused my sensibilities many times over the past few weeks, but I have learned that I was too stiff necked, and had misunderstood the scriptures. We will be re-evaluating our interpretation of God's holy words. Promise me you will bring books on scriptural interpretation so we may learn from them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We promise, Lord Cromwell. There are differences between our interpretations, some you may not agree with. But I believe that God in his wisdom gives each of us instruction that causes us to stretch beyond our comfort zones."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It is a continuing process" Nalini added. "We stretch and feel uncomfortable, then we grow accustomed to it, and it becomes our new comfort zone. We must then stretch again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Aye." He nodded and smiled. "That you treat Catholics and Protestants alike is a marvel to us, but your actions have shown us that there is something inherently right about that. We have much to learn."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We are all learning." Nalini responded. "Tolerance is something that must be practiced by those who are intollerant, but the victims must also learn tolerance, otherwise they will perpetuate the intolerance by behaving as victims."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded and grunted as if he hadn't understood some of that. Nalini added "You may aim to treat Catholics and Protestants as equals, but each person must also learn they are equal, otherwise they will still see others' behaviour as evidence of intolerance, and imagine slights where none were meant."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah. I understand that. You have wisdom and insights we must aspire to."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero added "Lord Cromwell, you are embarking on a course of changes for your culture. One thing I must advise is that change must be managed, and must proceed in careful stages so that everyone may follow along. Too swift and you will have a peasant's revolt on your hands."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, you speak in terms I find easier to understand. I know our cultures are different. I freely admit that I believe our English culture is superior to any other; but I believe we can learn things from your culture as well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Cromwell, our own culture is English, though you have not seen it. It may disconcert you to know that in our past walked a King Charles and Lord Cromwell. But the events in our past turned out differently from those here. We are not from your future, though in many ways we are what your culture will develop into."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded thoughtfully. "I do not fully understand all of that, I need to think on it some more. However, I do appreciate that you see things differently from us, and that those different perspectives seem to be scripture based. When I contrast some of the things you describe with how we behave, there seems to be an innate rightness to yours. This is why I want books from your culture on the interpretation of the bible. I believe that your theologians may have insights we do not." He stepped back, smiled. "I shall look forward to your return. May God go with all of you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And may the blessings of God be upon all of you who remain here." I responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prince Rupert wished all of us Godspeed. To me he said quietly "I pray you bring the lady Elizabeth back. I have found I have grown quite fond of her."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If Liz is willing, we will bring her back."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini added "Don't forget you must seek us in dreaming if you want training. It would be good if you could train together."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I have set my heart upon it. Now I must find a way to accomplish it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You will Rupert. We are both sure of it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned to Liz, took her hands. They both stood silently looking at one another. Finally he remarked formally "My lady, I hope we shall meet again" and bent to kiss her hand.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz forestalled that by stepping forward and hugging him fiercely. "We're a bit less formal where I come from Rupert." His hands moved awkwardly to hug her in return. "I will be back to visit. But remember what I said, don't make promises you can't keep. Just... see how things develop." She stood back. When she spoke again, her voice was huskier. "Take care Rupert. There will always be a special place for you in my heart."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 For a moment Rupert looked as if he was about to cry, but instead he smiled, drew himself up. "You have pride of place in mine Elizabeth. Return soon, I pray."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  The five of us rode across the castle courtyard and through the main gate, turning toward London. No one spoke until I had made the first shift for our shadow Brisbane. Nalini and I took turns shifting.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I should like to spend some time having nothing to do with shadows, gods or anything else!" Prospero announced. "I'm looking forward to modern plumbing too!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Me too!" Liz announced.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Don't say that in Rupert's hearing, you'll break his heart." Paula quipped.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think I already have."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why? Did he ask you to marry him or something?" Paula persisted.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Something like that." Liz said neutrally.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hah! That's a turn up for the books! A German prince falling for an Australian Aboriginal!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula!" Nalini cautioned.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, it probably is." Liz replied carefully.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, I didn't mean that how it sounded! Liz, you know I didn't. So you broke his heart huh? Turned him down? Tell us about it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Um... I don't really feel like talking right now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula, I think Rupert isn't the only one with a broken heart." Nalini observed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh sorry! But hey, this is girl talk! Liz, talking about it will make you feel better."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz however refused to talk. We rode for an hour or so through changing landscapes, past soaring mountain ranges and deep lakes, past angry seas and calm ones, over snow and desert, through forest of various types, under skies of many hues.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It grew warmer, and we found ourselves riding through landscapes reminiscent of south east Asia at home. Our road was a dirt track, and dark skinned people worked fields or rode carts drawn by horses or oxen. Others walked, driving cattle and pigs before them. The people were small bodied, the women clad in wrap around toga like clothing, the men in little more than dirty loin cloths.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We dodged a tropical rainstorm just as the fat drops began to fall, finding ourselves on the outskirts of a modern city. We rode along the grass verge of a paved road. Gaudily painted trucks and vehicles resembling jeepneys careened past amid much honking of horns. Brown skinned people rode upon motor scooters or push bikes. Modern looking three and four story buildings sat back from the road, their awnings providing shade for pedestrians. Many people turned to stare at us as we rode past on horseback.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Should we sidetrack?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There seem to be cities all around us. If we keep to the open line, we will probably ride right through in a few shifts."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 On foot we have no problem travelling through most cities, especially polyglot modern ones, but horses can cause problems in modern cities. We selected an open line into a park, and then realized we had not made the best choice. Ahead was a crowd of people, chanting, screaming, skirmishing. From our vantage point it appeared that the crowd was attacking a small group of people in the center. With hindsight, we did not make the safest choice, but possibly the workings of power meant we made the optimal choice.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero took out his binoculars and studied the scene for a few moments. "It appears the crowd is attacking a small group of women, and is intent on gang raping them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini took the binoculars from him, studied the scene herself. "It looks like they've rounded up about fifteen women. They're beating them and stripping them." She handed the binoculars back, grim faced. "It's a big crowd, but I don't want to leave the women to their mercy. They'll be gang raped at least."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We're on horseback, we have guns. We must rescue them!" Prospero spoke with fervor.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We need enough show of force to scare them off. Guns may do it. At least these are trained war horses." A trained war-horse is worth several foot soldiers in a battle. It is big, doesn't scare, and can kill an armored man with one kick. On foot, we'd have had little hope of forcing a way through the crowd, and would have had to search out shadows that allowed us to go around. "What about Liz?" Paula asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She has a warrior's spirit, like the rest of us." I responded. "Liz, you'd best stay on your horse, and guard the others when we get off."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Okay." She unholstered her gun, readied it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Are we ready?" Nalini asked. We assented. "Let's ride!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Our horses are unusual, being red with black tiger style stripes. They are about the size of a Clydesdale, but can muster several times the speed on the flat. We nudged the horses into a canter.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero, Nalini and I were aware of the dangers of the situation we'd glossed over. The problem was, we were five against several hundred. If the crowd consisted of warriors, such a press would have little trouble pulling us from our horses and killing us. Crowds being crowds, we were probably reasonably safe on horseback, all things considered. However, to be able to rescue the women, we couldn't just stay on our horses, but must get down amongst the crowd and bluff them. Somehow we had to scare enough people, clear a space and rescue the women. Guns and horses would clear a space for a time, but then what? We could drag the women through shadow, but we would have to put them back somewhere.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Worry about that after we rescue them!>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Hey, I like to worry, especially if it's about how to stay alive.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<If we're quick, we'll get away safely.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 As we neared the back of the crowd, Prospero uttered an ululating war cry similar to Amrik's, from whom he'd probably copied it. It is designed to freeze the blood of the foe. He followed it with two shots into the air, which the rest of us echoed. The crowd panicked, and parted like the red sea for Moses. Those unable to get out of the way were either shoved physically aside by our horses, or trampled underfoot. Prospero had his gun in his left hand and his sword in his right, flailing around with the flat of the blade.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We barged through with little resistance. Nalini drew reign and leapt from her horse while it was still in motion, calling out some orders to the rest of us. Prospero turned his horse to face the milling crowd and caused it to rear and strike out with its hooves. I turned mine the other way and did likewise. People fell back in panic.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0  Prospero and I leaped from our horses to help Nalini, while Paula and Liz stood guard. The crowd was comprised of hundreds of individuals, all males, and probably mostly under forty years of age. Many were unarmed, but some were in possession of sticks, bottles, knives or other offensive weapons. Their skin colors ranged from very pale yellow to deep coffee color. The females were more Asiatic looking, with skin colors ranging from pale yellow to medium brown. They were all young, probably mostly teenagers, while one looked to be about ten or eleven.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The girls had all been stripped by the time we reached them. Several were being held on the ground, in the process of being raped, others were being groped and pressed to the ground. The surge of anger I felt was alarming. If I'd had the power, I would have been tempted to cause all the men to burn alive or suffer some equally painful fate.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With so many people in the crowd, it was essential that rapists and attackers be neutralized as quickly and efficiently as possible. In other words, they had to be knocked unconscious, killed or injured sufficiently to render them incapable of any further threat. Knocking someone out is a precise art. Too little force and you have an angry attacker with a sore head. Too much and you will kill them. We preferred to avoid killing people if we could, and that left injuring people as the only viable option.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini as first in had to solve this problem. By the time I leapt from my horse, she had already kicked three attackers in the face and a fourth in the balls. Having cleared a space around her, she immediately shot all four men in the kneecap. "Kneecap all of them!" she commanded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini: I think Danny had more qualms about that than the rest of us. Liz and I had both been on the receiving end of this sort of mob violence, neither of us felt much remorse about it. Prospero is a soldier, without the background of the Genieva convention - to him kneecapping was a humane alternative to killing them. Paula can be quite ruthless and bloodthirsty when she wants to be. It's partly her nature, but I think the fantasy war games she plays with her brothers and their friends are largely responsible. That left Danny to feel some pangs of guilt, and since we're telepathic I felt them too. But then Danny also has a ruthless streak, and agreed with my assessment.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Danny: For a short time there was pandemonium. We had to move fast, and we had to be ruthlessly efficient if we wanted to survive ourselves, let alone rescue the girls. In about fifteen seconds we had almost thirty men kneecapped. Nalini and I had also kneecapped most of those that Prospero tackled, which left us running low bullets. We needed a few seconds to replace the magazines, but we weren't given that chance.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 A few martial artist types tried to be heroes. Four attacked me, five attacked Nalini. Perhaps they thought she was better, or perhaps they thought to take her hostage. The men were angry, but Nalini and I were spurred by a white hot fury. Several of them were good, but fortunately not good enough. Martial arts require more than physical practice, strength and prowess. The masters know that behind all the training lie energy workings. As sorcerers, we had learned that behind sorcery were energy workings, and we had been including them in our own martial arts practice for months now. We also had the advantage of being protected by our ceramic mail that absorbed and stopped any powerful blows without injury.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I was already in martial arts mode as Nalini and I term it. In such a state the mind and body seem to be one, the action flows almost without thought. Energy workings. I felt the energy flow through me from my torc. I hesitate to say I felt invulnerable, but I certainly felt something like that.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Contrary to martial arts films, real fights using martial arts techniques do not last long. The first blow must be the killing blow, there is no second chance. All four attacked at the same time, using their feet. I moved on the nearest, dodging his foot and slamming a blow into his shin with my clenched fist. The energy flow snapped the bone like a twig. The second found himself too close as he extended his foot into the kick, and changed into an attack with his knee. I blocked with the heel of my other hand, letting the energies smash his kneecap. The third smashed his foot into my back, where my coat of mail absorbed the impact. He howled as if he had hurt himself. The fourth missed. I spun, danced back at them, elbow connecting with number three's leg, fist connecting with his face, twisted my body and hit the fourth with my clenched fist to his chest. The energies flowed with each contact. Number three fell backward as if poleaxed, number four shot backwards into the crowd, knocking a number of people over.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini dropped attacker number three as I turned to help. Two quick dancing steps and I punched her closest attacker above the kidneys, letting the energies break bones and mash up his insides. I turned again, to see the other attacker cop a jab to the throat. He flopped back, head loose, blood gushing from his mouth.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That short fight brought us a breathing space as other would be heroes re-evaluated their chances. We left at least half of them dead, the rest incapacitated. I made a mental note that when I had more time, I wanted to think hard about the energy workings we had used.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Several others tried to drag Paula and Liz from their horses. The horses kicked while the two girls fired into their attackers. Even those who tried to get close to the riderless horses were kicked: the horses are trained to attack everyone who approaches in a battle situation.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Another would-be hero tried to take one of the girls hostage, waving a knife around. He backed into Paula's horse; she stuck the muzzle of one of her guns into his mouth. While he was adjusting to this situation, Prospero grabbed his arm and broke it savagely.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We cleared a space around us, but I think we all realized that once the surprise wore off, our attackers would regain their courage. Things would then turn very nasty. Several times groups of men surged toward us, to be bluffed back by guns pointed directly at them. While Nalini and Prospero tried to round up the girls, I turned my attention to the gem in my dagger. I needed to keep the crowd at bay, and it belatedly dawned on me that sorcery was called for.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I didn't have time for elaborate theatrics, I needed to work something in the next thirty seconds. I activated the first link that suggested itself, and willed the crowd to know pain, fear and terror. Fire ran through my bones, while stinging insects crawled beneath my skin. I felt as if I was grasping a live wire. But I drew my sword, and faced the crowd, roaring. "Maggots! Eaters of dung! Crawl back to your cesspits!" Maybe not highly original, but it was what came to mind at the time.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It occurred to me later that perhaps I could have burned them with fire while the fury was upon me. Perhaps it was just as well I didn't think of it then. But the sorcery worked, the crowd around us panicked and trampled each other as they tried to flee. I kept the sorcery up for a few minutes until we had a reasonable clearing around us, then dropped it. I felt as if a heavy weight boxer had been using me for a punching bag.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 This left us in the middle of the park with about forty five injured men, about nine or ten dead ones, and fifteen hysterical girls. Many were injured: bruises showing, cuts and abrasions, one girl was bleeding where a nipple had been torn off, several had been raped, one anally. We gathered up their clothes and prepared to decamp for a safer shadow where we could debate what to do next.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz, Paula and Nalini were all grim faced, trying to comfort the girls. Prospero looked at me and said "We prevailed. I had my doubts you know." He shook his head. "What can we do about filth like these?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I had my doubts too. We seemed too few. But then we are all warriors and sorcerers. Kneecapping is probably better than they deserve."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So this is kneecapping? I have heard the word before, now I have seen it. I think it's a suitable punishment. But Nalini surprised me, I didn't think she was that ruthless."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You forget that she has been on the receiving end of such treatment."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh. Yes... " His head lifted as he stared into the distance for a moment. "They are returning, with what looks like a truck load of soldiers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I looked around as he spoke. A battered army truck was bumping across the park toward us, while the brave crowd slunk along behind, howling threats. "I don't think they're friendly. We'd better leave now."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Unfortunately it took longer for us to ready our charges than was available. The truck accelerated when they spotted us, stopping near by to deploy about a dozen armed soldiers.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Shit! Prospero, stall them while Danny and I disarm them!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Lover, can we fetch their guns?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<With a little assistance from the gems. Let's do it!>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were fortunate the soldiers didn't immediately open fire, but their reasons quickly became obvious. "Throw down your weapons and surrender!" They spoke English with a quaint accent.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "May god be praised! We have rescued these women from the crowd, but we feared they would come back and over power us!" Prospero responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Throw down your weapons! Give us the women!" Several other soldiers were making ribald remarks about the girls.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We want to have fun with them! Throw down your weapons or we will shoot both of you!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do you mean to rape all the women here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The spokesman laughed. "Of course! They are Chinese, that's all they are fit for! When we have finished with them we will turn them over to the crowd. Surrender them now or we'll kill you!" Guns were aimed directly at Prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He began reprimanding them. "Do you call yourselves soldiers? You're not even fit to be called criminals! You are the lowest of the low! A disgrace to your uniform, your regiment, and your country! Your sacred duty is to protect citizens from harm!" His voice took on the parade ground bark, and he started dressing them down in terms that might have made a drill sergeant blush.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Meanwhile, Nalini and I were concentrating on catching all their weapons. We were using our shadow shifting senses to fetch them to us instead of walking through shadow to them. That requires more power than we can normally muster, but our gems were supplying that We had to select all the weapons at once, so we took the trouble to double check: eleven rifles, two machine guns, three pistols and about a dozen knives. Together we reached out with our shadow shifting senses and fetched the weapons to us. The rush of energy made both of us groan, but the weapons in the soldiers' hands vanished leaving only a rainbow after image. Almost instantaneously they appeared at our feet.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The soldiers' mouths dropped open in shock. Nalini and I picked up the two machine guns. They were loaded, cocked and ready to fire. We casually pointed them at the soldiers.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Turn around and go home!" Prospero barked. "NOW!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How did you...?" the spokesman began. There were background whispers about sorcery from several of the others.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'll count to five. Then we shoot." His voice was cold. "One... two... three..." At this point the soldiers lost their nerve and fled, leaving the truck behind. Nalini and I fired a burst over their heads for good riddance. The crowd kept its distance, but several of them were hurling insults. It wouldn't take them long to decide to hurl rocks instead.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We intended to be out of that shadow within minutes. Nalini and I had a quick telepathic debate about what to do next, then she moved off to muster the rescued girls.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Prospero, you and I are going to ride back to Cromwell's shadow and fetch Imladril."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He nodded. "Is it wise for both of us to go?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, it's safer to travel in pairs, as you know, but Nalini thinks it preferable that us menfolk disappear for a while."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, of course! Let's go then."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We mounted our horses, but waited the extra minute until Nalini shifted everyone else out. I didn't set course for Cromwell's shadow, but rather for Imladril herself, in case she was elsewhere. I also tried to raise a mental link to Durathror, just in case we could short circuit the trip.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero and I discussed the rescue as we rode. I was feeling a little civilized guilt about kneecapping, as was Nalini. Prospero had no such feelings. "Danny, if we hadn't, all those girls would have been raped, possible killed, and the gods know what else they might have suffered. If this had been back home in Tarantia, we'd have had to send in several companies of soldiers with swords and spears, and a good number of rioters would have been killed or injured. As it was, all those at the front of the crowd were actively trying to rape the girls, so they're as guilty as hell any way!" He shrugged. "Kneecapping seems a suitable punishment."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nalini suggests that castration might have been better."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ugh!" He shuddered. "As a man, I can't condone castration. I'd prefer to kill rapists than castrate them. Kneecapping cripples them, but they are still intact, they can still lead fulfilling lives while being reminded of their crimes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I suspect that some of them will die unless they get medical treatment."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's their problem. If they want to riot, rape, loot and pillage, they have to expect injuries. I wish we could have done something more about the soldiers though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, so do I. If I was a better sorcerer I'd have turned them into toads for a day."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "One day, we will be able to do so. Soldiers are supposed to be trained to uphold the law, not side with rioters."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I must admit I was surprised at the dressing down you gave them, and even more surprised that they stood there and accepted it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, don't forget I am a general in the Aquilonian army. I treated them the way I would have treated our own soldiers. There's a certain tone of command that you learn and soldiers all recognize. They knew I was a senior officer, they knew that what I said was true."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I wonder if we could have handled it better? Maybe used some sorcery at first."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He chuckled. "I'd say we reacted the best way we knew. The two of us and Nalini are trained warriors, we're competent with physical violence. Paula and Liz have confidence, they don't go to pieces and they back us up. Sure it's dangerous, but we either avoid the situation or we become involved. If we become involved, we have to accept the risks."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, and one day we'll stage a rescue that will back fire and leave us injured or dead. I wish I knew some useful spells."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So do I, but that takes training. I'm new at sorcery, I can't do any spells at all. You can manage translation spells, money changing and a few small ones. When you first started martial arts training, could you have used it in a fight? You've been training for years to be proficient."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, I guess you're right. Durathror makes it look so easy, but he's had over a thousand years of practice. And we both know that learning something well enough to perform it in front of your trainer is one thing, but using it in a knife edge situation like today is something else. Surviving a fight against a few trained opponents takes years of training and practice."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Speaking of which, you and Nalini worked extraordinarily well when you were attacked. Both of you seemed to dance around your opponents, and sometimes it looked as if you barely touched them, but still they dropped. Several of them even went flying into the crowd!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That surprised me a bit. Remember those katas Nalini and I have been practicing?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The ones you started teaching me, or the ones you are teaching Paula?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All of them actually. They don't just teach physical movement, they work on the energies as well. They are starting to come together for us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah huh. I must confess I never quite believed you; I've been stalling because I already know how to fight. And I'm busy of course."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Put it off for too long and Paula will be able to beat you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm having new respect for what you tell me!" he grinned. "I watched you hit someone in the chest, and the force of the blow threw him five or six meters into the crowd and so hard that a dozen people were knocked flying! I know I can't do that, and I know that normally you can't either."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What you missed was that I broke bones with every blow. I broke someone's shin with a block, that's a very hard bone to break. But I have seen a grand master give a demonstration of chi energy years ago. He could put six house bricks on top of each other, and break them all without touching them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's amazing! I'm sure you've told me this before, but what is chi energy?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Actually chi energy is a tautology. Chi is the Chinese word for energy. They divide it into eight classifications according to the eight directions. As near as I can ascertain, they were onto the same thing that Durathror describes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah, now it makes sense. Durathror told me that energies have colors, and the different colors mean the energies have different uses. I can't see energies yet, but I can feel them, as you would know." We can't do things like shift through shadow unless we can channel enough energy. "I associate energies with sorcery and shadow shifting, not martial arts."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I had to smile. "Basic martial arts is assorted movements and techniques for self defense. You don't learn katas for that, you just need to practice the various techniques. You can become very proficient at those techniques, but without the energy you hit the wall very quickly. You are proficient enough that I can say you have to be using energies as well, although you don't know that. The katas are designed to promote the flow of energy or chi, and now that you can detect chi, I think you will notice that when you start performing katas again."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I believe I will. I should start tomorrow. But I find it amazing that you can use energy to break bricks, or injure opponents."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey, if Durathror threw someone across the room without touching them, you'd say he was using sorcery. I have seen masters of martial arts do just that. But whereas Durathror simply stands there and directs the energy, the martial arts master will use a movement like a strike to direct the energy. There's really no difference, all that matters is that you develop the energy flows, and that you know what you can do with them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Knowing what to do is the difficult part, I'd say. If you give a sword to someone with no training, they generally have a vague idea which end to hold and think of hitting or stabbing, but they are not effective. They don't know what to do with it in life and death situations."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I find I can learn the uses, but it takes a life and death situation to push me to the point of using it instinctively. Imladril calls it internalizing the knowledge. Personally, I think when you reach a certain point, you can do a large number of spells, but what takes time is learning how to internalize each one to the point where all you have to do is think of the glyph and activate the energy."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's another thing that puzzles me yet. What are these glyphs? They don't have power by themselves, do they?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now we're getting into why we call it sorcery and not magic. There's stage magic, there's ceremonial magic and so on, but they all work from elaborate props and gestures. Like in ceremonial magic you draw circles on the floor, inscribe various runes or symbols, summon gods and demons to do your bidding, when really you are either using your energies to create thought forms, or calling up mischievous entities. None of the symbols or gestures has any power by itself. But it acts as a trigger to put the magician in the correct state of mind. We do not use props, instead we work with the energies directly. Sorcery is a better term because it doesn't carry the suggestions of ceremony." Prospero nodded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I continued "In ceremonial magic the symbol has to be correct, and there are great tables of correspondences to ensure that all the symbols, colors etc match. They try to tell you that if they don't all match the spell won't work. It's all nonsense, except that what the practitioner believes is what matters."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But it makes a convenient excuse for when the spells don't work. The sorcerers in Aquilonia are like that. Everything must be correct, from the pronunciation of names to hand gestures. If the spell didn't work, which is most of the time, then the magician had forgotten some minor detail. I never did have much respect for them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I don't blame you. Humans are symbol users. We invented language, we are forever inventing new words to encompass new concepts. We manipulate symbols in our thinking. A symbol is a shorthand for the spell, it is a short hand for the action and effect. For example, if I said 'back fist punch', you'd know what I meant and you know how to do it because you have internalized the doing of it. If you were choreographing a fight scene in a movie you might have different symbols to indicate each of the blows. It's the same with spells: we internalize the doing of them, and attach that to a symbol. Durathror calls that symbol a glyph because it is something you can draw easily. It might be a simplified picture, it could be quite abstract."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So what sort of symbols do you use? I guess I'm curious because I haven't been taught yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I smiled "Ah, patience is a virtue! Nalini and I tend to use the same symbols, mostly because we are telepathic. Nalini's symbol for the translation spell for example, is the Chinese character for speech. She's fluent in Chinese, she picked that character, and now she doesn't know why. It's possible that Korum used that symbol.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It isn't a good idea to use Chinese characters simply because they have ordinary meanings. Just think, every time she writes that character, she is going to think about the translation spell, but she has ever bothered changing it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The money changing spell is the Egyptian hieroglyph for wealth: neither of us knows ancient Egyptian, so we never think of the symbol otherwise. A couple of spells use Norse runes, like the shield spell is the norse rune called the Helm of Protection, but that is the one Durathror uses. Some others use any of a dozen different archaic scripts. It just has to be distinctive, and easy to remember. Durathror even told me of a sorcerer he knew a few hundred years ago who used to draw a square on a piece of paper, divide that into smaller squares, like nine, sixteen or twenty five, and then write letters into some of the squares. He'd write the Latin word for what he wanted the spell to accomplish, and memorize that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's certainly different. And all you do is think of the symbol, and the spell happens?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not quite, it's like thinking of moving your hand and moving your hand, or thinking of shifting into a shadow, and shifting into a shadow. You think of the symbol, then action it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do you know, that reminds me of once when I asked er... I think it was Fenodror, how he did sorcery. He just looked at me and said "I think of what I want to accomplish, then I purse my lips and just blow gently." At first I thought he was joking with me, but I am coming to the realization that he was telling the truth. It's like you thinking of a glyph."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I haven't heard that one, but I'd say he is telling the truth. I mean, sorcery is all about intention, will and energy. I could say the same about martial arts. If you learn it well enough it become second nature like moving your arm. I am not consciously aware of how I move it, I just do it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was nodding. "There are so many new ideas, and it takes time for them to jell properly. Is there anything I can do to speed up the process of learning spells?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not really. You have to learn in the order that Durathror sets, and improve your energy working. When he deems that good enough, you will begin to learn spells. But first you have to be good at shadow shifting."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, I know all that. It implies I really must stop neglecting my katas."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were riding along a winding rocky trail through sparse yellow vegetation. There were small bushes that resembled palm trees about a meter tall, taller spiky leafed grasses similar to pampas grass except that their feathery tops were vivid orange, and gnarled and twisted trees with reddish trunks and broad fleshy yellow leaves. The sky was littered with brown clouds like dog turds in a park. The sky was dirty blue, the sun small and green. The trail was blue black rocks like basalt and equally dark dirt. The land was reasonably flat. We had been riding for about forty minutes.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It seemed reasonably safe, so I paused in my shadow shifting and tried again to contact Durathror. This time it worked. There was a feeling of contact, and his words echoed in my mind.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Greetings Danny, this is unexpected. Is something wrong?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I held my hand up to let Prospero know I'd made contact. Then I swiftly appraised Durathror of the situation.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<A moment please. I must inform Imladril.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was silence for several minutes. Prospero and I walked our horses to the shade of some large yellow leafed trees and waited. The horses sniffed at the vegetation, but turned their noses up at it. Prospero's horse turned to look at him with an expression of reproach.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Easy star, we'll find some nice grass soon." He patted the horse's neck. "It's fairly pleasant under these trees, though the breeze has some odd smells in it."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There were a number of unidentifiable odors best categorized as chemical. Add in a couple of tanneries, an oil refinery and rotting seaweed and you have an idea of the breeze.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hmmm. Not my choice location for a holiday. You know, the variety we find in shadow never ceases to amaze me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero nodded. "I wonder if we ever cross the same shadow during our travels? Every one seems different from all the others. I wish it was possible to find out a bit about them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So do I. That's why Nalini and I are thinking of winding up our business. We don't need the money, but with the business we can't just go wandering into shadow, stopping where we like for a time." I chuckled deprecatingly. "Then again, having a business to run probably stops us from wandering off to explore weirder and weirder shadows. It gives us a focus that anchors us to shadow Brisbane."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I don't have the urge to explore the weird ones." Prospero snorted. "Don't close the business though, I find that helping you and Nalini run it is very interesting. It's all so completely different from anything I grew up with. We've barely mastered the printing press, and here I am learning about html and web pages and the java programming language." Suddenly he grinned. "I come to work with all this and I'm like a little kid going "Oh wow! This is so kewl!" as Paula would say.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "However, I do like the idea of settling in one shadow for a few months, exploring that, and then going home. Aquilonia and Brisbane are homes to which I can return. A man must have a home to which he can return after his adventures."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How can you say a cliche like that with a straight face?" we both smiled. "That's how we feel about the business, we enjoy doing it. We have homes in several different shadows now, but Brisbane is home for both of us. Neither of us was born there, oddly enough. Did you know, I was getting to the point of feeling I was stuck in a rut when I met Nalini? She really turned my life upside down."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I would say you two have done that to mine as well. Although I was scheduled to die when you rescued me: if you hadn't, that would have had an even bigger impact on my life!" Not one to say the obvious, Prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Funny about that. She and I did some travelling together, but our adventures seemed to start after we met you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He smiled. "And here I was thinking that before we met, you and Nalini went about banishing gods, destroying evil sorcerers, and generally saving the world on a weekly basis!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We had a few small adventures. I'm sure you've noticed that if you stay around so called human regions, from time to time you run into wars, bandits and raiders. We just try to help those we come across. Maybe it's an unconscious means of paying back for the gift of the torcs, and the ability to shadow shift. Rescuing you was our first big adventure. We've noticed that they seem to happen around you and Paula."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He grinned sheepishly. "Two out of two doesn't make that a pattern. Anyway, we couldn't let those women be raped. One is scarcely more than a child!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Exactly. And so, like some comic book super heroes, we charge into the thick of things to stage a rescue. But unlike comic book heroes, we can be hurt and we can be killed."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero chuckled. "Your problem is you're too civilized! Now if Amrik were here, he'd have charged into the thick of things to stage a rescue, and not worried about being killed. He'd tell you he'd have an honor guard into the after life if he did."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Whereas you, Prospero, don't believe in the guard of honor theory any more. But Amrik is not as rash as you make out. Yes he'd stage a rescue, but he'd think things over first to be reasonably sure that he and his soldiers could get out alive."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero raised both eyebrows, but nodded. "I think you know him as well as I do. All his talk of glorious deaths and honor guards into the afterlife is to encourage the soldiers who may die in the battle. But they also know he would willingly risk his own life to save theirs, and that he won't risk a battle unless his soldiers have a chance coming back alive. That is one of many reasons why the soldiers will follow him anywhere."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Speaking of coming back alive, did you calculate we would win, or did you merely hope?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I confess I hoped. I trusted Nalini's intuition and yours. But in all honesty, could you have ridden on and left them to their fate?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I wondered. Could I have ridden on? By myself I could have and would have. One man could not do much. But could one sorcerer? I was still new to sorcery, still learning what was possible. Could I have ridden past with a clear conscience? "Probably not. But I think we were trusting your ability as a general to assess the situation realistically. I guess our intuitions must have been right."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero chuckled again, and shook his head. "I may be a general, but I have limited knowledge of guns and modern weapons, and even more limited knowledge of what sorcery you two are capable. We were five against a mob. My assessment was that with a sudden strike, and fear, we could win long enough to get the women away. This we did."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nalini and I have limited knowledge of what we are capable of. So far we have managed to pull off incredible things when it comes to the crunch, but I would rather not factor that in. We're still learning what we can do."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Did it occur to you that your power rounds up tests for you?" Durathror's voice rang in the air. "And that what ever the test, if you use your powers, you will pass it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We looked around to see him standing behind us. "Durathror, how long have you been standing there?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Not long, but I did catch the last of your conversation. Five against a mob, and you succeeded. That is what counts. Life is a series of tests. One day death will tap you on the shoulder, and there will be nothing you can do, but until then, if you use your powers, you will win. We are proud of you, even though it means work for Imladril and her healers."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Where is she?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She has summoned several healers, and together they have set off directly for Nalini. She should be there soon."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I will let Nalini know." I activated our private link, and told her what Durathror had said.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Thanks sweetheart. How long before you're back?>> she felt stressed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<We can probably be there soon if Durathror does the shifting. When do you want us back?>> I sent a mental hug.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She basked in the hug for a few seconds before she replied. <<Probably best to wait until after Imladril has arrived. Oh, she's here already. Head back soon hey? Gotta go!>> she blew me a kiss.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I let Durathror and Prospero know the situation.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very well, we shall take a slightly scenic route." Durathror responded. He looked up at the two of us seated on our horses. "Hmmm, I think I should have brought a horse. Never mind, the walk will be good for me. Prospero, you will lead off. You can practice your shifting for ten or fifteen minutes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "All right. Er... I should focus on Nalini and Paula should I not?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If you remember the details of the shadow in which you left them, you could head there, but they may have moved. Focusing on a person is a better choice in these circumstances."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero wheeled his horse and lead us back along the trail, taking about fifty seconds to select his next shadow. He moved in shorter hops than Nalini and I could, but then he was learning, and we were marking time for a little while.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The trail switched to dark red soil, the leafy shrubs and trees became smoky blue green. The sky was gray. We rode down past a wash away toward a creek. We shifted before we reached the stream.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Now the trail was more clearly defined, and the stream passed underneath a stone bridge. We rode over the bridge, the hooves of our horses ringing loudly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Smokey blue gave was to deep red of crusted blood. The trees were covered in short spiky leaves. On a branch a large bird the color of fresh blood watched us. It let out a single "Kwark!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And to you also." Durathror responded before the scene changed in a ripple of rainbows. The foliage was darker, almost brown, the leaves broader. On a low overhanging branch a single blood red bird sat, watching us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What did the bird say? Has it been sucked after us?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It wished us good hunting. Danny, you should be able to tell me whether the bird has been sucked after us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I checked the other shadow myself. "The branch is empty. Did it fly away, or is that the same?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror smiled in a secretive manor. "You should ask it yourself. You have not asked me how I knew what it said."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The scenery rippled again, and this time there was no tree nearby. Around us stretched boulders as far as the eye could see, round ones like some god's lost marbles. The sky was polished copper, the sun an eyesearing bloodshot eye. The blood red raven appeared on one of the nearby boulders, fading in accompanied by rainbows. It most definitely had not been sucked after us, but had shifted in by itself.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero reigned in his horse. "Durathror, we assume you can listen in on the thoughts of animals. You spoke aloud to alert us that the raven is intelligent. We have legends back home in Aquilonia about ravens. This one is obviously interested in us, and has been dragged after us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror nodded, twirled his moustache. "There is truth in what you say Prospero. Danny, what do you say?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I had been using my shadow shifting ability to see the raven with senses other than sight. Its aura was strange, and there were lines and whorls of power about it. "I am tempted to say it is a magical being. It traveled here of its own accord. Its aura is not that of a bird, nor of anything I have seen before."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very good!" Durathror nodded. "Allow you to present my mentor."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With this the raven stood and leaped to the ground. As it descended, there was a twisting sensation in the back of my brain. The bird's head seemed to stay at a particular height, while the body enlarged and changed until the feet connected with the ground. A lithe male stood before us. His skin was coppery red, he wore a simple loin cloth that consisted of two flaps of red leather, one front, the other back. His hair was long and straight, the color of fresh blood, and hung to his shoulders. Around each calf a thong of red leather had been tied, with seven red feathers attached. Similar thongs were tied to his wrists. A complicated device hung on his chest: a hoop with netting spread over it, red feathers and colored stones tied here and there. His arms were spread like the wings of a bird, and in his left hand he held a small drum made from the skull of an animal over which red skin had been stretched taughtly, while in his right he held a small bleached bone into which red markings had been incised.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He waggled his left hand and the drum made a noise like a rattle snake, then he brought both arms together in a sweeping movement to play a rapid timpany on the drum with the bone. He stopped suddenly and stared at Prospero and me, his eyes the piercing stare of a raven.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 My mind did a double take. Intellectually I knew that Durathror must have learned his sorcery from someone, but I had assumed it was another of the Viharani, much older, and perhaps dead now. This youthful looking man must be older than Durathror, and as his mentor, must have considerably more power.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was in the process of dismounting, I followed suit. "Humph, a fine looking pair." Durathror's mentor commented. It took only a moment to realize he was using a translation spell. "The humans show promise too!" he continued. We didn't laugh, but we were smiling when we walked around our horses' heads to confront the red skinned man. "See! I am not so terrible after all." Even his speach seemed quick and bird like.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero and I gave a half bow. "Greetings honored sir." Prospero announced. "Your company is an unexpected pleasure."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hah! Idle phrases. You know me not. But I greet you both in turn."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror stepped into the conversation. "I am sure this is not a visit for idle gossip. We were on our way to meet up with my sister Imladril, as you know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I know, though you will take days at the rate your apprentice is shifting. I wished to see your fledglings for myself." He turned back to us. "I am the Raven. Who are you?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We introduced ourselves.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Wrong! Your names have no meaning. Not fit names for sorcerers!" He looked at me with a penetrating stare. " I see the Eagle has put his mark upon you. You are Soaring Eagle. And you" he turned to Prospero "are the Wolf that hunts with the bull. Much better!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned back to Durathror, and they talked soundlessly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's uncanny, Danny. Did you know, back when Amrik and I were in the revolution, his nickname was "the Bull" and mine was "the Wolf"?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I think I did. If this is Durathror's mentor, then it means he can do things that Durathror cannot. He's obviously able to pick up on things like that."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And perhaps your compatriots called you Wolf because they could detect your innate self." the Raven interrupted. "It is time we were moving."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror nodded. "Prospero, I want you to perform five shifts toward our destination. Then Danny will take over and perform eight. Don't bother mounting."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero's first shift took us to a sulfurous smelling shadow strewn with weathered sky blue boulders. The ground was leprous green like the color of verdigrised copper. A scorching blue sun beat down upon us from an emerald sky. In the boulders' shade were barrel shaped things like armored cactuses. I wondered how high the ultra violet was here. Definitely not my choice of shadow. But I knew that Prospero was taking an almost direct line toward Nalini. In time he would learn to deviate for more pleasant shadows.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 His next shift gained us respite from the heat. We walked across a desert of dull yellow gravel, a red sun slanting behind distant hills. The sky was dirty pink, and brown clouds scudded under the influence of a cool wind. The wind gusts had teeth, promising a cold night.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With the third we shifted into sparsely covered scrub land. Waist high bushes with smoky gray leaves grew in rings anywhere between five meters and fifty meters across. The sky was partially overcast, obscuring the sun. Distant hills looked blue. The breeze was cool and refreshing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 With the fourth we found ourselves walking along a cliff top above a raging ocean. The waves thundered and crashed against the cliff, shaking the ground beneath our feet. The rocky ground was covered with clumps of low plants with fat fleshy leaves like fingers, and delicate sky blue flowers that seemed to be made of many many threads. The ocean breeze was chill, and soaring seabirds cried over our heads. Away from the sea, gnarled trees grew, twisted and slanted away from the prevailing wind. Further in the distance the scrub and bushes grew, and the land sloped gently up toward a distant volcano, its flanks decorated with snow. The world felt deserted, untouched by humans.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 His final shift brought us into a small clearing beside a burbling stream. Pink crystalline trees grew about like large corals. From their tops sprouted silver threads that tinkled like wind chimes in the breeze. The vegetation underfoot was almost entirely stony mushrooms and oddly shaped growths.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stopped, and the Raven asked "Prowling Wolf, where would you shift next? And why?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We stopped, and the Raven asked "Prowling Wolf, where would you shift next? And why?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I'm not very experienced. I can only detect about seven shadows." I could detect considerably more. "Two feel quite strange, I wouldn't consider them" there were more than two strange ones, but I knew the two he was discussing. One seemed to have rocks that floated in the air. There was more, but it felt wrong, dangerous. The second had an atmosphere that seemed to be almost as thick as water, and crushing gravity. "One is a plane but it doesn't feel inviting, one has snow, and one is extremely hot." The plane was some sort of metal, with regular shapes dotted about. They felt like artifacts. I sometimes wondered if these odd ones weren't shadows of giants, and the plane a bench or desk top, or even a kitchen sink. The one with snow was blowing a blizzard. The other one seemed to have furnace like heat, and the rocks themselves seemed to be flowing; possibly a recent volcanic eruption. "There is a rocky promontory that projects out into the sea. I think there is a light house at the end. It feels cold, but safe. There is one that seems to be jungle of some sort, it feels okay, but I think I would avoid it. The other one is similar to this one. It's the most direct shadow I'd pick that one."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That made eight, but we all knew, could see in fact, that the shadows weren't just tangled like noodles, they writhed around each other like a bowl of worms. Some would drift out of focus while we discussed them and others would drift into focus.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very good!" The Raven commented. "You have the sense of direction, you can sense many of the dangers. You still need much practice, and you must build up your powers. Soaring Eagle, where would you shift?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I had been sifting and considering as Prospero spoke. "I can detect quite a few, but most of them I would discard. This shadow has echoes that curl so" I gestured with my hand "The cape with the light house is promising, but it also curls away. The jungle has large carnivores prowling around, it might be safe to pass through, but not to follow" I was speaking of the trends in the shadows. Rather than follow the direct route as Prospero was doing, I preferred to take small detours to avoid sudden changes of terrain. It was an ability that came as one's powers grew; at first I had done just as Prospero had done. "The cape is my second choice, this shadow's trail my third. The most promising is the logging track through the forest that is moving within range. It has many echoes that seem to head in the right direction."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Very good! You seek to minimize the sudden changes. Lead on."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Sudden changes are tiring for us, and can frighten the horses. It is a lot easier to cope with gradual changes, even if it means a little more shifting. It is often said that you can find anything in shadow, as long as you can visualize it. I wanted an easy walking trail to our destination.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I started walking forward, focused on the shadow I had selected, and felt the familiar "long itching" feeling in my solar plexus as something fastened onto the shadow and drew us there. A rainbow swirl spread out over the rocks, fading from the center outwards to reveal a reddish dirt logging track, rutted by tires of heavy vehicles. We were surrounded by leafy trees in autumnal splendor.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I followed the trail for a further four shifts, while autumn shaded toward winter, and the track widened. Then I shifted toward a different trail, where the trees were leafier, possibly late spring. The trail widened over three more shifts while the trees thinned. There was a storm ahead in many shadows, so I detoured around it. The climate warmed, the sky shaded into yellow, while the vegetation grew tall. Grasses and flowers disappeared, to be replaced my many fern like and palm like plants.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "This is enough!" The Raven stopped me. "Where would you go from here?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I wouldn't follow this set for long, I believe there are dinosaurs around. I am heading toward the tropical shadows after we have detoured around the storm. Although I can sense them, I cannot shift that far in one shift. Other than that, night is falling in many, and I would like to avoid travelling by night. We'll be coming into inhabited shadows in perhaps five or six shifts, I haven't yet made up my mind about them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hah! You have done well. Now you will observe what I do. We seek Durathror's sister. For me that is a short step, but to shift in one step would require a sudden change of scenery. I prefer to make several gradual changes when we travel with animals. So, I select four shadows between here and there. They are my guide posts. I will not jump between them, but rather shift gradually between them. You take almost a minute to select a shadow and shift, I take less than a second. I will add and subtract features with each shift until I reach our destination. Let us walk!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I am used to the strange sights of shifting through shadow, but when The Raven shifted it was almost as if we were watching a film in fast forward. The vegetation shrank while the leaves widened. The sky shaded from yellow through green to pink. The trail widened with each step, but the changes with each sift were subtle. The land grew hilly, and we found ourselves walking up hill through thickening trees. Then the trees shrank toward bushes while our track became the spur of a flat topped hill.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I knew what he was doing, which was almost the exact opposite of what Nalini, Prospero, Paula and I did. While we all focused on our destination in order to select shadows, we moved in discrete steps toward that destination. Prospero had spoken of detecting only seven shadows; in fact there were an infinite number, and he would be able to detect a very large number of them. The adjacent shadows are similar to the current one, but represent only a small step. All of us have an idea in mind when we sift through the adjacent shadows, and that somehow filters what we perceive. We all sought to make discrete steps toward our destination, so we detected shadows that represented that. If it takes us a minute or two for each shift, why shift the equivalent of a baby step when we can take a full step? The effect of taking large steps is that each shadow can be quite different from those that preceeded it. Nalini and I tried to minimize that effect by not following the most direct line toward our destination, but detouring through similar shadows for a smoother transition. It meant more steps, but then we could sift further and faster than Paula and Prospero could.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The Raven on the other hand was able to shift much faster again, and so contented himself to take shorter steps very rapidly. The result was almost a continuum of small changes that added up to the same effect of our larger but slower shifts.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We walked from the scrub toward a cleared area that flickered suddenly into what looked like long lost ruins. There were fallen fluted columns, broken stone walls, and shattered statues. Underfoot were paving stones, weeds growing between the cracks. The sky was pale pink, the weather pleasantly warm. Ahead was a weathered stepped pyramid, flanked by statues of reclining figures. In front of the pyramid was a group of people, among whom I recognized Imladril and Nalini. Off to our left three horses were tied.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The Raven spread his arms expansively. "So! When you are good, you will be able to do that too." He turned and walked toward the group, accompanied by Durathror. Prospero and I tied up our horses and followed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini ran to greet me, threw her arms around me. "Am I glad to see you. I need a hug!" She was trembling.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I hugged her tight, held her. "It's been rough, hasn't it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah. There were all these hysterical girls. Liz and I had a little cry with them. I was glad when Imladril arrived."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I shushed her words with a kiss, but since we're both telepathic I could feel her own distress at what she had witnessed, and the echoes of her own experience so long ago. Gradually her trembling subsided. It was then that we became aware of Liz standing near by, trying not to look at us. "She's upset too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I kissed the top of her head, then her lips. <<Okay sweetheart.>> "Liz, come here" I motioned, speaking gently.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She screwed up her face, but came over to us. "I guess I feel a bit left out..." she began.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I both extended an arm, folded her against us in a hug. "You don't have to explain. Everyone needs a hug sometimes, and you've been through a rough spot..." At that point she buried her head against my chest, her body wracked with sobs. I stood there wordlessly, patting her back, Nalini made soothing noises like you make to a child.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The sobs subsided, then she blew her nose. "Sorry, it's been a bit trying"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And it brought back unpleasant memories" Nalini concluded for her. "Liz, don't be ashamed. It happened to you, it happened to me. It's a terrible experience, but I can say I know what it's like. We heal, we put it behind us, and we go on." She gave Liz a squeeze.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Thanks. That's the first time it's bothered me for ages. All those crying girls upset me too. But I'm over it now, I'm strong!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes you are Liz, you're stronger than Paula I think. She hasn't had your experiences. I'd say you're cooler under fire too." Liz nodded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Shall we go over to Imladril?" Nalini asked. "Liz, if the past does start bothering you, ask Imladril to give you a healing. She did that for me, she will be doing it with those girls soon."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz made a face, then nodded. "Maybe I should. I could just join with the others, couldn't I?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini released Liz, and we started walking over to the group. Nalini had her arm around my waist, mine was around hers. My other arm had been around Liz's shoulders, she caught it as I moved it away, and slid her arm around my waist. <<Put your other arm around her Danny, she needs some support.>> Nalini thought to me. And so, arms around each others waists, we walked over to the group.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Were you two scared when you started the attack?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It made me so angry to see what they were doing to those poor girls!" Nalini exclaimed. "We just had to do something."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If I'd thought about it in those terms, I might have been. I was too busy making sure it all worked out." I responded. "Mind you, I did wonder whether the 'oh shit!' factor would kick in."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What's that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's when you reach the point of no return in some action, and then you realize "Oh shit! I didn't want to do that!" And of course it's too late when you realize that. But Prospero will tell you that action cures fear."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Mmm, I think he's right. I was scared at first, but once it all started happening, I didn't have time to be afraid."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You're very brave Liz..." I began.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You poor thing, Liz!" Nalini sympathized. "We should take better care of you. I should have thought - it's all right for Danny and I to risk our own lives, but we should look after you and not risk yours."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's okay Nalini. You're right, we had to do something. We couldn't just ride on past and let them be raped and murdered! Danny, who's the red man?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I was wondering about him myself" Nalini added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh... he's Durathror's mentor. He calls himself The Raven. When we met him, he was a blood red raven. I can't tell you much else, other than he's very good at shadow shifting."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "If he's Durathror's mentor, he must be very good. I'd guess he must be from one of the primary shadows."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He looks so... tribal!" Liz commented.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, I'd take him for a shaman."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 At this point we reached the group. The girls were fully clothed, and milling around. Many had sorrowful faces, some talked with one another.Ra'anor and three healers I did not know walked amongst the girls, touching one, talking to another.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril greeted us with hugs. "We are proud of you. But you must take care. I have heard that there were large numbers of men in the mob."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh, yeah. If we'd thought about the odds we may not have rescued the girls. Instead, intuition, coupled with suprise and a bit of sorcery pulled it off."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We weren't sure what sorcery we could muster though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, you do not yet know enough. That will develop over the years."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How are the girls?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh, physically they are fine now. You rescued them before any serious damage was done. Mentally they need the healing we are about to begin."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Then we should leave you in peace for a while."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, would be good. Why not go and talk with Durathror for a while. We shouldn't be more than about twenty or thirty minutes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Um... can I join the girls?" Liz asked hesitantly.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril studied her for several heart beats. "Of course you can dear." She said tenderly. "You will benefit." She turned, shepherding Liz towards the group of girls. Nalini and I joined Prospero, Paula, Durathror and the Raven.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I performed the introductions, Nalini murmured something polite to the Raven. He stared at Nalini for a few moments before replying. "Humph! Your parents may have thought you were a forest flower, but you are not. The Eagle has set his mark on you. You are Stalking Jaguar."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She nodded. "I believe I have used that in my dreams."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That is because in the dreaming it is easier to recall who you are, and what you are."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned to all of us. "I hope all this praise over your rescue hasn't swollen your heads. One day, if you live long enough, you might make half way decent sorcerers. If that happens, then you will also encounter myself or my companions, and we will become mentors to you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Who or what are you exactly?" Nalini asked. "We know you must be powerful if you are Durathror's mentor."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I choose not to answer that question now. Let me just say that I could teach your friend Korum a few things, if he decided to learn. Now, you have rescued the girls, have you thought how you planned to return them to their homes?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We know there are problems. We can't just leave them where we found them, they'd be raped again. Somehow we have to return them to their homes."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's worse than that Danny. I talked with a few of them. There's been rioting for a day or two. There is a great deal of ethnic tension because the girls are Chinese, the rioters are not. The Chinese are the merchants in their shadow, it's a bit like ours I guess, and the locals resent the fact that the Chinese have more money. There's been looting and pillaging, one girl was taken from her parents' shop by looters who were smashing the place. They tell stories of girls being gang raped by hundreds of rioters, some are killed, some are savagely beaten and left for dead. Hundreds of Chinese tried to flee to the airport, but most were stopped, dragged from their cars and robbed and beaten or worse." She looked distressed. "I don't know what to do really. I was hoping Durathror and Imladril could help."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero clicked his tongue in disapproval. Paula shook her head. "It's disgusting the way they behaved."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The Raven's eyes glittered, his face hard. "Durathror, what do you think?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror stroked his moustache. "I haven't had a chance to appraise the situation myself, but from what Nalini says it will be very difficult to return any of them until the trouble abates." He looked at Nalini and myself. "I may be a sorcerer, I may be able to use my powers to do horrible things to the rioters, but once I turn my concentration away, things revert to what they were. As you found out earlier, it is very difficult to change even one person's outlook on life. We managed with Cromwell and Charles and a few of the Puritans, but that took weeks of intense efforts. Here we have a civil uprising. I really don't know what to do, other than take the girls somewhere else for a time, and then return them."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And if you do that, their families will worry themselves sick." Nalini added.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Precisely!" The Raven responded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ==>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But we can't just drop them back into the violence." I protested.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Others might argue otherwise, but the workings of power decreed that you should interfere, that you have done. Now we must continue from where we are, rather than where we wish we were. I see nothing wrong with taking the girls with us."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The girls may disagree with you." Nalini put in mildly. She opened her mouth to say more, but the Raven stopped her.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am well aware of these considerations. I am asking you Stalking Jaguar, Soaring Eagle, and Prowling Wolf to think about it. You cannot become involved as you have done and then expect someone else to remove your meat from the fire because it is burning!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So we take the girls with us. Maybe we could inform their relatives." I commented. "But their relatives are in danger as well. So we take them as well, and in the end we try to rescue tens of thousands of ethnic Chinese because the locals are racially intolerant. We lack the resources to do all this." I think I sounded peevish.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Durathror smiled ruefully. "I also lack the power to rescue tens of thousands. I can quell a riot, but I cannot prevent another one from happening tomorrow or the next day. I requested my mentor meet me to see if he could suggest something. Is there anything you can suggest, Raven?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The Raven snorted. "I would suggest that you take the girls to safety, and return them in a few weeks when the trouble settles down. But I am not oblivious to the heartache that will cause their relatives. I am also quite aware that unless something is done, the riots could continue for days or even weeks, resulting in the deaths of thousands, and the injury of many thousands more."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He seemed to be waiting for something. Durathror sighed "Taking the girls to safety with us is simple. But will any of them have families to go home to in a few weeks? Raven, I did not ask you to meet me so you could tell me what is obvious to me. Is there something you can do that I cannot? The mere fact of your presence suggests that there are possibilities open to you."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I came to meet your students! I did not come to pull their roasting meat from the fire for them!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I felt there was little point in continuing this conversation. I thought to ask Durathror whether we could take the girls back to their shadow. I asked Nalini whether we should take them with us to Aquilonia, or to Brisbane.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Well we have more room in Aquilonia...>> she began.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero was of a like mind with us, or perhaps he had picked up on our feelings. "Well, sir Raven, since there is nothing you can do to assist, we will take the girls to my estates in Poitain. At least they will be safe there. Danny, Nalini, we will need to procure suitable walking clothes and footwear, it will be a long journey."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The Raven laughed. "Ho! You think to call my bluff, Prowling Wolf? See, you have come up with a solution that is within your powers." His voice and mouth laughed, but there seemed to be no mirth in his eyes. "You must learn that if you roast your meat on a stick, and it falls into the fire, then it is you who must pull it from the fire! However, I did not say I would not help, only that none of you should expect my help."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Prospero demurred. "I do not seek to call your bluff sir Raven, only if you will not help, then we must start our own preparations to move the girls."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Good! But since I am here, I shall help as best I can!" He swept us with his gaze, imperious, haughty, piercing. "But first, do any of you notice anything about this place?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "There are ruins..." Prospero began.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Too obvious!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I looked at one another. "There are lines of force emanating from the pyramid and the statues..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Ah hah! What else do you notice?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The flag stones are invigorating..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...while the pyramid is brooding..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...it seems to have much power..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...but its power is sleeping..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...there is no awareness there..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...the statues on the other hand..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...are full of danger..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...almost as if..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...they seek to hunt us..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...they are sentient..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "...and they are aware of us..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were deliberately playing ping pong with the words, something we tend to do when we are thinking together. It often disconcerts others, which is why we do it.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The statues are aware of us!" The Raven smiled. "I instructed Imladril to convey the girls here. You should know that this is a place of power! Long ago sorcerers lived here, and this is where they raised their powers!" His arm swept around the vista. "These statues are terrible demons, sleeping now, until something awakens them. The very flagstones beneath out feet ooze power! Feel it!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 From the corners of my eyes, half seen scintillations alerted me to the presence of small spirits. I let my shadow shifting senses come fully alert, and I could sense lines and whorls of power, through which the spirits cavorted. The stepped pyramid pulsed with power, but that power was without will. The statues of reclining figures on the other hand were pregnant with ill will, making them a stain in the environment.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Once, powerful sorcerers came here, and challenged magical beings. The sorcerers desired to live forever, not accepting that physical bodies decay, and the spirit is reborn. They sought physical immortality. They went to great lengths to achieve physical immortality. This is their place of power, the results of all their workings. To achieve their ends, they changed their bodies into something enduring, something that will last for thousands upon thousands of years."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I knew where he was leading. "These statues are what is left of those sorcerers, aren't they?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "These statues are those old sorcerers! They still live as immortal stone. They are all around us, they sense us, they would feed on our power if they could. But they abandoned the human band, they adopted the band of the earth, and this is the result."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They aren't dead then?" Prospero asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, they are not dead. They have become stone statues. Their awareness is that of stone, slowed many hundreds of times from our own awareness. They sought physical immortality, and they went to any lengths to achieve that. They followed a path without a heart, and they lost their humanity!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Are they dangerous?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "To those girls you rescued, yes! They can suck out the girls' power, and leave them dried out husks. But not in the presence of powerful sorcerers. They envy us because they know that we have achieved what they sought, without paying the price they paid. They also know that their power is there for the taking by any with the ability. They especially resent sorcerers, but there is little they can do."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He raised both hands, and the lines and whorls running through that place swarmed around his hands like iron filings to a magnet. As I watched him manipulate them, I realized that he was doing something that had its basis in what Nalini and I could do with the power links in our gems. They made power available to us, the Raven was using the powers of this place for his own use.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Now, I must protect all of you. Like so!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He created a shielding spell for each of us, similar to the one that Durathror had sometimes used. There was a feeling of a slight tightening of the skin, a slight prickling sensation, and no more. The shield was like an invisible suit of armor, impervious to bullets, explosions, poison gas, and much more. One day we would be able to create such a shield for ourselves.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Let us inspect the shadow." He gestured for the rest of us to join him. The shadows blurred, and we walked out into the same park from which we had rescued the girls an hour or so ago. There was pandemonium all about.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nearby, wounded men were being loaded onto hand carts and the back of a battered old truck. Soldiers stood guard, firing guns into the crowds from time to time. The crowd itself was rampaging though the park and the surrounding streets, throwing rocks, bottles, pieces of paving, anything they could get their hands on. Many of the buildings were on fire, those that weren't were in the process of being looted. The trees in the park had been trashed, the ornamental iron fencing had been turned into weapons. Even as we watched, the crowd pulled the stout iron barred shutters from a nearby building, and swarmed over each other in their eagerness to get at those sheltering inside. Helpless men, women and children were being dragged out. I felt a surge of anger, an urge to burn all the looters to ash.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No" the Raven said quietly "let me." The next moment, all the victims vanished. A moment later, they appeared in a group around us. There were thirty or forty people, at least half of them children. There was fear in their eyes, many of the women and children were crying, and their clothing was in disarray. Several were injured, mostly children. One, a child of about two or three, was screaming with the pain of broken bones.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The Raven reached out his right hand to the child, and its screams quieted. He made soothing noises such as a father will make to small children, and turned to touch all of those he had rescued. Their injuries vanished, their torn clothes repaired themselves.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You are safe now!" the Raven announced to them. They huddled around him, trying to take comfort from their miraculous rescue. I caught sight of the Raven's eyes for a moment, tears glistened there. "They should not have hurt the children." An arctic blizzard would have been warmer than the Raven's voice. His jaw was set. "Now the punishment begins!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We were a little distant from the action, but what seemed to happen was this:}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The iron railings writhed and became poisonous snakes with metal skins. They could not be killed or injured, but they turned on the crowds and bit them. The flames leaping from the buildings took on a life of their own, and leaped amongst the crowds, charring flesh. The billowing clouds of smoke became swarms of angry hornets that descended on the rioters and stung and stung and stung. The rioters trampled one another in their panic to get away.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Where we stood was an island of comparative calm. The surging crowd parted at some unseen barrier and went around us. The soldiers were swept away, along with the hand carts.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Many will die today." Durathror observed. "Could you not have put them to sleep?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I could, but they would not learn, they would do the same tomorrow. Those who die today are those who are guilty of rape or murder. Those who are injured will be those who injured others. Such is the sorcery I have wrought."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But what of those who are trampled underfoot?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Casualties of war. They should not be out in the riots in the first place. None here are innocent."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Should we move away from here for the time being?" Durathror asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes, let us go!" The Raven conveyed all of us back to where Imladril was. There were looks of astonishment on the faces of those we'd rescued. "You are dreaming!" the Raven assured them. "Soon you will wake and find this has been nothing but a bad dream!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Raven, what did you mean when you said they should not have hurt the children?" Nalini asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I was debating with myself whether to kill or to injure. The child's broken bones decided it for me."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That affected you more than you're letting on, didn't it?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The Raven perched his rump on the base of one of the statues. He surveyed all of us, including those he had rescued. "I am an old sorcerer, old enough that even Durathror is as young to me as you are to him." I did a quick calculation: Durathror was perhaps forty times my age. If the Raven was forty times Durathror's age, it made him somewhere around fifty thousand years old. I was staggered. "These statues were contemporaries of mine, but they followed a broken path. They lost their hearts, and their humanity. I walked a different path, I chose to use my powers to help those less fortunate than myself. Many people however, must live many lives before they can benefit from my help. The suffering of others affects me deeply, especially when it is inflicted by humans who behave worse than animals." He fell silent, staring off into the distance.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You must have seen a lot of suffering in your life..." Nalini began.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked at her, one of those penetrating gazes. "No more than many others. You have suffered much in your life." He breathed deeply, let it out slowly. "You young ones with your technology are able to see the suffering of others around your world. Societies without such know very little about the suffering they inflict on others. Most people only know personal suffering, and have little compassion for others."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He breathed in, making a hissing sound with his teeth. "When I was a child, a raiding party came to our village. They killed many of our warriors, they mutilated and left for dead the old, the sick and the ugly, they ripped babies from the wombs of their mothers, they raped all the women and many of the children. Those they did not kill they took away to sacrifice to their bloodthirsty gods. I came to realize that those who had been mutilated and killed in the village were the lucky ones. Those they sacrificed they first broke every bone in their bodies, then they flayed them alive. Their shaman would don the bloody skin and dance around while the victim died." His eyes were like glittering marbles, his jaw a grim line.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "How did you escape?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We were held in a palisade, guarded by warriors armed with clubs. Should anyone try to escape he would be beaten senseless. When he awoke, he would find himself tied to the altar awaiting sacrifice. So as you can see, there was no easy way to escape. I had already been apprenticed to our village shaman, and knew something of sorcery. For three nights, I sought out my totem animal, the bear, in order to beseech it to rescue me. For three days I watched as my relatives were taken one by one from our prison, and sacrificed. They were mostly women and children, and they screamed horribly for hours before they died." His jaw clenched.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I swore bloody vengeance, I cursed their bloodthirsty gods, I screamed at our gods to save me, but nothing happened. For three nights I sought futilely for my totem. For three days I watched as my mother and my brothers and sisters died horribly. Finally I could take no more. I cursed my gods and my totem for allowing such suffering into the world, I reviled all gods as cruel abominations, and I bargained with what ever spirits could hear me that if they would spare the others, I would let the shaman sacrifice me. My body fell down, and I went completely into the spirit world. A magical being in the form of a blood red raven visited me, and told me that since I had truly offered myself in place of the others, it would help me. It also offered to become my totem, and to teach me sorcery. In return, it asked me to promise that I would use my sorcery to protect the children and the innocent, and destroy those who prey upon them.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "When I awoke, I found that a pack of nahwatl - they are ferocious hunters about the size of elephants, with teeth like daggers and hide so tough you cannot cut it with a knife. The pack had come into the village, and eaten everyone who was outside our stockade. Two warriors had tried to save themselves by climbing into our prison, but those of us who remained beat them to death. We waited until the nahwatl left, then we escaped our prison, took what we needed from the vacant village, and returned to our village."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He smiled suddenly, this time with his eyes as well. "As you can see, I survived. The magical being did indeed teach me many things. I became our village shaman, I took wives from the surrounding tribes since most of our women had been killed. I had many children, but I did not age. One day when my wives had all died, and my sons had grand children of their own, I left my village at the behest of my totem, and I have traveled ever since. I have trained many others during that time.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "In my own tongue, we do not have the word for demon. Gods and spirits are capricious and cruel, and they make brutal sport with humans. I have since come to realize that demons do exist, and that mostly they inhabit the bodies of humans. I have destroyed many over the years."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Have you ever been back to your village?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 His face turned wistful. "Ah, my childhood companions had all died, my grand children were grown with children of their own when I left. I returned once or twice, but I found that truly we can never go back, that I was a stranger in my own village. All of you are embarking on the same path as I did, and you will find the same. To stay in one place is to stagnate, grow bored and die, but once you leave you become a stranger. Only in the company of other sorcerers will you not feel a stranger."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 ==>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He pursed his lips, turned his gaze on Nalini and myself. "Normally I do not concern myself with the affairs of ordinary humans or even fledgling sorcerers any longer. When Durathror told me that you two had banished not one but two gods, I had to see you for myself. I find it hard to credit, you seem so young and inexperienced. But Fin mak Morn gave you your gems at the behest of the eagle, which means that the eagle has seen something within you, or about you. Stand still, both of you." He walked in a slow circle about us.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Do you think he can spot anything that Durathror hasn't?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Durathror said we both looked like ordinary humans. How do we know we're not?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Well, we are soulmates, and we used the gems to banish two gods, there has to be something buried that we don't know about.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Durathror thought that was an artifact of the gems themselves. You think there's something more, don't you?>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 <<Of course Danny! I know you feel it too.>>}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Do what ever it is you do to raise your powers." the Raven commanded.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini and I held hands, gazed into each other's eyes, and let our minds slowly merge together. At those moments we feel like two halves of a greater whole. To think inside another's mind, to see through another's eyes. But that other is like a distorted image of myself, reflected by ruffled pond. And in the depths beneath the surface of the pond lies our true self, that greater whole that cries out triumphantly "We are one! Our bond can never be sundered!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We thought about activating the powers of our gems, but the Raven cried "Enough!" We spiraled back to the realm of ordinary humans, and normality.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "The two who are one!" The Raven was standing close, staring at both of us fixedly. It was quite disconcerting.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Did you find what you sought?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I did. Your bond is your strength."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "That's it? Nothing more?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The Raven smiled, an impish grin. "There is much that I will not tell you yet. However, I will tell you this. Once, eons ago, you were powerful beings. In your pride you did evil, and you were punished. Ever since you have been crawling slowly back from the brink of the abyss. Do not hurry the process." He wagged a finger at us, much as Durathror does. "One day, in the distant future, you will undoubtedly regain what you have lost. But you will be the better for your trials. The Eagle has seen fit to help you along with the gift of the gems."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 It seemed much as Nalini and I privately surmised, but there must be more. "Who created the gems? What is their relationship to us? What is your relationship to the Eagle." We spoke together, our minds still linked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am afraid you must find that out for yourselves..." the Raven began.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Answers popped into our minds as they sometimes do, welling up from some vast depths. The gems were ours originally. And the Raven? The Eagle's brother...}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nay, speak it not!" the Raven commanded. "Keep your speculations to yourselves. They are doubtless wrong. But the gems were given you by the Eagle, use them for the Eagle's purposes. Do not look to your past, for it has no power. Look to your present, and the future you create from the present."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He stepped back, surveyed us. Just then Liz came jogging over, her eyes bright, a big smile on her face. "Hey guys, can I join you? Imladril said I should."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The Raven smiled. "Ah, little sister. You are always welcome. One day you will be a great sorcerer, and one day you will remember who you really are." His voice was almost a purr.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Uh, thanks. I'm Liz."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, you call yourself that. You are the Kookaburra woman, whose laughter floats to the skies. I am the Red Raven of Destiny."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz looked at Nalini and then me, a puzzled look on her face. "Um... I think I missed something there." She looked at the Raven.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, one day you will remember who you are, and you will know what I mean." His voice was soft, but it hardened abruptly to what I assumed was his normal voice. "All of you here will become great sorcerers, either in this life, or in subsequent ones! When the time is ripe, each of you will meet with one of my brother or sister sorcerers, who will become your mentor. Until then, study hard under your current mentors. I must leave now, one day we will meet again. I wish you all well."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He turned abruptly. "Durathror, come, we must see about returning these people to their homes." He martialed all the people we'd rescued into the one group. Then they all faded out leaving a rainbow after image.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What an extraordinary person!" Prospero exclaimed.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He is certainly extraordinary." Imladril responded, joining us. She looked pleased with herself. "There is some doubt about whether he is a person, or one of the elder gods masquerading as a person. We refer to them collectively as the Old Sorcerers. They have incredible powers, but they do not seem to understand much about how they do what they do."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "So what did he mean about calling me little sister and kookaburra woman?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What's a kookaburra?" Prospero asked.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's a bird about the size of a crow, but with a fatter body, longer beak, and it makes a noise like this: oo oo uh uh, oo oo uh uh, oo oo uh uh! You must have heard it." She managed quite a good imitation.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I have indeed heard it. It sounds very much like someone laughing."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I am glad you did that imitation" Imladril smiled. "I did not know what the word kookaburra meant either. We know very little about the old sorcerers. They are old, they are powerful. They take as their names the names of the elder gods: their leader is the Eagle Man, his consort is the Jaguar Woman, and there is the Red Raven, the Grey Wolf, the Brown Bear, the Black Puma, the Tiger and many more. They claim that these animals are their totem spirits. Durathror and I have often wondered whether they are indeed manifestations of the elder gods, playing games. There is no way we could tell though."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Why do you think they could be elder gods?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "They are very ancient, very powerful, and their auras do not look human. That does not mean they are elder gods, they could be what we call magical beings, they could be the totem spirits from which they claim to take their names."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We explained about the swarms of hornets and the snakes. "Do you know how he could do that?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril shook her head, her beaded braids rustling slightly. "To bring snakes or hornets from a distant shadow is easy for us, but we could never control them once they were here..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "What about while we were on the way to Cromwell's England, and Durathror made the bandits do things to each other? Wasn't that controlling..." Paula's voice petered out as if the explanation were dawning on her.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Minds can be influenced" Imladril responded. "And the influence will last for several hours. But that control does not extend to winnowing the good from the evil, as the snakes and the hornets were doing. Further, we can change the shape of objects, but we cannot change inanimate into living beings. You need a spirit to activate a living organism, and associating the two is like raising the dead. It can be done, but simply to create living creatures from smoke is beyond us. The only way I could create life is the way known to all women." She smiled.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Did the Viharani learn their sorcery from the old sorcerers?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "No, I do not think so. Perhaps in the distant past our ancestors may have. We are concerned about the why and the how of the doing of sorcery; the old sorcerers are simply concerned with the doing, without understanding."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 She shrugged. "I am not sure if I like them, but Durathror and some others believe they have much knowledge they can teach. I find them rather strange."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I find them scary!" Liz exclaimed. "But what did he mean about one day I would remember who I was, and why did he call me kookaburra woman?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "He is hinting that all of us are much more than we can remember in our waking lives, that we have other layers that have their own awarenesses. One day we will be able to integrate all of that into the totality of ourselves. In other words we will remember who we truly are. The term kookaburra woman means nothing to me. You may have to look into your own tribal stories to see if it has meaning."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Could he mean that Liz is somehow more than human? Or was little sister just a form of address?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Imladril laughed and shook her head. "I think it was just a form of address, but he could mean anything. They love creating puzzles and mysteries for us to solve. That one is for you Liz, you must solve it yourself."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                                   ***}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 We said our goodbyes, and the five of us set off again for Nalini's and my home in Brisbane. Liz was happier and talkative this time.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey Liz, what did Imladril do you?" Paula queried.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "To be honest, I'm not sure now, but I feel like a load's been lifted from my shoulders. I didn't even realize it was there until we had to comfort those girls."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "She performed a healing, Paula" Nalini responded "just like she did for me. It means that I can accept the things in my past as part of getting to where I am today. I'm no longer bitter about it, I don't often think about them, and when I do, they don't worry me. Liz, you'll find the same."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, I no longer feel dirty or guilty or anything. It's just something that happened in the past. You're right Nalini, it doesn't bother me anymore."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You struck me as being pretty well adjusted anyway Liz. I don't think you had any major scars, you'd have never been able to relate to Rupert the way you did if there had been."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I hadn't thought about it like that, but I guess you're right. I think he helped the healing process too."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I thought he would, that's why I encouraged you. Danny was a major factor in my healing you know."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yeah, I gathered that. I know you been down the same road I have, I figured that if you could enjoy things with Danny, I could enjoy them too. Uh... not with Danny I meant..."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "I know you didn't mean Danny" Nalini interrupted. "I know I can trust you with him." And we both trusted each other.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "And you can trust me with him too!" Paula added, ignoring a certain little incident between the three of us back about the time we had first met Prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Yes Paula, I trust the two of you together." In other words, she trusted me, but the three of us knew that Paula still had the hots for me. Prospero didn't know this, and there was no benefit in going into that now.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Hey Liz, tell us all about Rupert! You've kept us in the dark too long. What's he like? What happpened between you two?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz sighed, then snapped "I went to bed with him, that's all!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "But there's much more than that! Nalini, tell her she has to tell us what happened."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Nalini shook her head. "Paula, Liz is an adult. What she says is her decision, and hers alone. However Liz, I think all of us would like to hear about you and Rupert."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Liz raised her eyebrows, sucked in her lips, and looked around at us wide eyed. She sighed. "I suppose I'll never get any peace until I tell you, will I?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nah, of course not!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula, is this some sort of girl thing?" I asked. There was a twinkle in my eye as I spoke. Paula often tags things that Prospero or I choose to do as "guy things"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Of course! And Liz is a girl, so she has to tell us!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "You sure I'm a girl?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "We..e..ll..ll" Paula began}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Nalini and I can vouch for her, Paula."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Oh ho! Tell me more!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Paula, we shared a bath, there's nothing else to tell."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Danny, talking about guys and sex is a girl thing, just we don't usually do it in front of guys, especially the guys we're talking about."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Except we're proposing to quiz Liz about Rupert." Nalini replied, amusement on her beautiful features. "Liz, you don't have to tell us anything if you don't want to."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It's okay. Where do you want me to start?"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Start with going to bed with him, and we'll take it from there" Paula advised.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 The conversation in fact jumped all over the place, as conversations often do. Rather than try to reconstruct that, or paraphrase it, I've asked Liz to write something in her own words.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 LIZ I wasn't going to write anything, but Danny can be quite persuasive. He said he'd tizz this up a bit, but at least I get to tell things my way.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Rupert is basically a nice guy, we hit it off quite well. He doesn't seem to be into that racial purity thing that Germans got into later. The trouble is he's from Germany and England in the 1600s, so his outlook and customs are quite different. I guess he's a bit like Prospero there, only a bit more uptight about sex.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I guess it was quite a buzz really - this German Prince getting the hots for this little black chick. Only thing was, he didn't want to go through with it. He's such a prude really, uptight about the whole sex thing. He didn't want to take my virginity because I was a lady. If I'd been some serving girl he'd have had no problem, but I think he'd have kept his heart out of it then.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 That's one thing that worried me about a long term relationship with him. He thought I was a highborn lady, cousin to Princess Nalini. Well my folks are poor, and indigenous as well, so a lot of people back home look down on us. Danny and Nalini don't, they've met my parents and some of my mob (=relatives - Danny). But Rupert's this prince, and I get the willies thinking of how to explain the reality of my background to him.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Anyway, this is getting ahead of things. The silly goose was really uptight about having sex with me. I didn't want to admit I wasn't a lady, so it was looking like nothing was going to happen. I mean, I was scared about sex, and he wasn't doing anything to help.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Well, I burst into tears, and between sobs told him about how I'd lost my virginity. Not all the details mind, just a sketchy outline. He was very quiet for a while, but he kept his arms around me and hugged me, which was probably what I needed right then. Finally he told me he didn't think any less of me. I interrupted him because I didn't want to get into the guilt trip, and I told him I wanted him to hug me, not be judgemental, and just talk to me. We must have talked for hours!}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Turned out he wasn't a virgin (now why wasn't I surprised?), but it gave me a chance to upbraid him about why was it that it was okay for men to be experienced, but not women. Of course he answered that men were supposed to be virgins as well, but I countered that since he wasn't, and since I wasn't, what was the problem?}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He ummed and arred a bit, so I asked him if he had some problem with my skin color. He told me it was nothing like that, but seeing as I was a lady he had pangs of conscience. I told him to pretend I was some serving maid in a bar and stop worrying about the niceties of things. I also made sure to tell him that it didn't matter if nothing happened, because I didn't want him to feel he was under pressure to perform.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think I ended up telling him something like "Rupert, stop worrying and just kiss me will you?!"}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He is actually quite a sensitive and attentive lover if he wants to be. (Jeez, I sound like some sleazebag who's had hundreds, don't I?). I had to show him how to use a condom, but once he realized what it was for, he seemed to relax a bit more. I can laugh about it now - he was uptight about doing it, I was uptight about doing it, but I wanted to go through with it to prove something to myself.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Well, I didn't come, at least now while he was in me, but I found I did enjoy the experience. I had to tell myself to relax before he could get in though. Surprisingly, he did have an idea about what to do with his fingers, and that worked. We lay there and talked for a while longer, then we made love again. I suggested he use his fingers on me before he went in. He continued while he was in me, and I came just after he came. It was a wonderful experience.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 After that night things settled down, and he was a lot more confortable about sharing a bed with me. Well for that matter so was I.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Paula asked me if we are in love. Sigh. I love him, enough to miss him a lot, but maybe not enough to marry him. He did ask me to marry him, before we went home, but I turned him down. Part of me wanted to say yes, but there's all these things like cultural differences that we have to deal with first.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I told him that what he needed was a good woman who would settle down to be the lady of his estates, and give him children, and do all those things that noble women do to further their husband's standing.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Estates!" he exclaimed. "Alas my lady, I fear I have none. As the youngest son of a poor nobleman, I have little to offer a potential wife save my title. Though now the monarchy's restored, I should receive an estate and stipend from my cousin the king. I can understand your reluctance to marry someone such as myself."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 I think I laughed at him. "I don't have any estates either, Rupert. But I do have plans for a career. That's something your world doesn't allow women. I might enjoy being a nobleman's wife from time to time, but it isn't something I aspire to." Danny, I don't think I really used that word 'aspire'}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "It isn't your titles, or your estates. I think you would be better off marrying someone from your own culture, someone who would fit in, and would know what was expected of them. Face it Rupert, I'm a novelty. Most people in Europe have never seen someone with black skin before. But could you really see yourself taking me to all those balls and social functions, and watch me make small talk with a bunch of women who can't even read or write?" Hey, have twelve years of school plus a business diploma from college. I'm proud of that. Okay, some of my folks can't read or write too well, but they're family, that's different.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He looked a bit crest fallen, but he smiled and said "I admit you are a novelty, but not just because of your skin color. You have a mind of your own, you are not some vapid creature who talks about fashion and gossip and nothing else. You have more education than I have. I think you must be the first educated woman I have met."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 "Well, Nalini had a university degree, and Paula has a business diploma like mine. Back where I come from, most women are educated."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 There was a twinkle in his blue eyes, and he smiled his devlish smile. Did I say he is quite handsome in a germanic way? All blond hair, pale skin and piercing blue eyes. Quite a contrast to my dark skin and hair, even more so than Danny and Nalini. "But you are still unique. I can relate to you in a way I cannot relate to women here. I can talk to you about history, politics and other subjects and have a proper conversation. I would be very proud to have you by my side as my wife."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 Like I said, part of me wanted to, but a larger part didn't want to jump in. "I'm not ready to get married yet. There are things I want to do, things I want to learn, ask me again in eight or ten years. I'm learning to be a sorcerer, so you'll have to be able to walk by my side. You have to get to know me properly, eat the food that I cook, stay with my family, and see where I come from. Rupert, I don't like saying no, but I can't say yes yet."}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0 He accepted that. I'd given him something to strive for. If things work out, maybe we will get married. After all, it's worked for Paula and Prospero.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs22\b0\i0                             *** The End ***}
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0
\par\plain \f2\fs22\b0\i0}